# CityLab Catalyst
**Course Code:** 76067 | **Term:** FA24
**Institution:** JHU Carey Business School

## Turnitin Plagiarism Checker for Students

### Turnitin Plagiarism Checker *(Assignment)*

## M0 | CITYLAB PREVIEW

### YOUR CITY, YOUR LAB -- *(Page)*
CITY AS LAB SLIDESHOW Have a paper and pen handy as you watch and reflect on the City As Lab slide show. Pause to study each slide and examine what you see. What impressions, thoughts, and feelings do the images and words evoke? Jot down your responses. After you have viewed the slideshow, review your notes and share some of your thoughts in the CityLab Teams Chat. As you engage in conversation with classmates, what are some of the common themes about the livability of your cities and communities. What livability challenges seem most urgent to you in your community? How is your city/community managing its livability challenges? If you don't live in a city, what is the impact of urbanization on your community? What livability challenge are you most curious about or want to understand better? What other thoughts and questions would you like to share? YOUR CITY AS LAB

### CITYLAB PREVIEW *(Page)*
CITYLAB PLACEMAKING PREVIEW CITYLAB | PLACEMAKING LEADERSHIP CHALLENGE Building for What’s Next: Waterfront Communities Humanity has evolved as an urban species, with over half the world’s population living near coastal communities that bear the brunt of rising sea levels and extreme weather events. Ninety percent of us live within ten kilometers of freshwater lakes and rivers increasingly polluted with toxic chemicals. The future of humanity is unfolding in the world’s cultural and economic hubs on the waterfront. The CityLab Placemaking Challenge is two back-to-back courses offered by the Carey Business School in both Fall 2024 and Spring 2025. You are encouraged to take both courses for the full CityLab experience, but even one CityLab course will expand your worldview and open your mind to new possibilities for placemaking leadership through your career and civic engagement. Students located near Johns Hopkins campuses Baltimore and Washington DC anchor their CityLab experience in Baltimore and the upper Chesapeake Bay watershed. Remote learning students conduct immersive fieldwork in their own communities and apply project learning experience to livability challenges where they live and work. FALL 2024 CITYLAB SCHEDULE SESSION I: BU.152.740. CITYLAB CATALYST (2 cr). August 29 – October 17, 2024 The CityLab Catalyst equips students – from any location, discipline, or profession – with knowledge, tools, networks, and immersive fieldwork experience to tackle the disruptive uncertainty and frustration of global livability challenges that threaten the planet, human health, social cohesion, civic order, and economic prosperity. The CityLab Catalyst experience invites you to build a career strategy focused on transforming livability challenges in their own communities into opportunities for a building a more livable future. Some of the most innovative emerging business opportunities, for example, are focused on solutions to livability challenges, with a third of new global patents addressing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The focus on Waterfront Communities will engage you in deep exploration of how concerns about water permeate nearly every aspect of your community, from commerce and infrastructure to food safety and housing affordability. SESSION 2: BU.152.745. CITYLAB PRACTICUM. October 24- December 19, 2024 The CityLab Practicum puts the CityLab Catalyst immersive learning experience to work on place-based projects sponsored by local entrepreneurs, businesses, governments, and community organizations focused on innovative, impactful solutions to livability challenges. The CityLab Practicum is a hands-on, active learning project experience requiring a high degree of individual commitment, initiative, self-discipline, adaptability, and teamwork. Through this experience, you solidify skills, demonstrate expertise, grow substantive professional networks, and position yourself as a collaborative, impactful placemaking leader.

### PLACEMAKING 101 | FUNDAMENTALS *(Page)*
WHAT IS PLACEMAKING? If you love places where you can walk or ride your bike from home to the grocery store, a coffee shop, a dog park, your job, and a friend's house, then you already know about placemaking. The Neighborhood Design Center in Baltimore is a great resource for exploring how placemaking leaders think about placemaking: Defining Placemaking . REGENERATIVE PLACEMAKING: BUILDING FOR WHAT’S NEXT The placemaking movement began with urban activists like Jane Jacobs (Jacobs, 1961) before it became a movement. For over half a century the placemaking movement has been growing all across the world as a cross-sector, collaborative approach to making places livable as well as productive. Most 21 st Century urbanites are familiar with the look and feel of walkable, transit-friendly, mixed use neighborhoods that define placemaking. In the summer of 2024, Baltimore was a placemaking hotspot for over 500 people gathered for the Fourth International Placemaking Week cohosted by Baltimore’s Neighborhood Design Center and the Project for Public Places . Among the hundreds of people involved in the highly collaborative placemaking movement, there are some standout leaders whose ideas and practices formed the core values, principles, and practices that characterize placemaking. Some examples: Congress for the New Urbanism (CNU). In the early 1990s, a group of architects began gathering together in annual “congresses” exploring design principles to counteract the massive urban renewal and sprawl that was destroying the fabric of neighborhoods and decimating American inner cities. The new urban “placemaking” design spread quickly as they articulated their values and principles in the Charter of the New Urbanism and put them into practice in communities around the country. Focused on cities, CNU architects created HUD design guidelines for the HOPE VI communities that replaced six of the most dangerously dysfunctional public housing projects in Baltimore City. Maryland was the first state to adopt New Urbanism principles when Governor Parris Glendenning (1995-2003) incentivized sprawl control with new Smart Growth legislation. Based in Washington, DC, the CNU is now a global organization with over 3,000 members in 49 states and 20 countries. Bass Center for Transformative Placemaking . In 2018, Anne and Robert Bass founded the Center at Brookings to “inspire public, private, and civic sector leaders to make transformative place investments that generate widespread social and economic investment” (Brookings, 2024). Generating timely research and innovative approaches to reimagining urban redevelopment, Jennifer Vey, the inaugural director of the Bass Center and her staff examined drew lessons, outcomes, case studies, and recommendations from in-depth studies in cities throughout the country. Jennifer is now bringing her placemaking expertise to the Greater Baltimore Committee. Future of Cities Regenerative Placemaking . Regenerative placemaking makes business sense. Driven by United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities) and ESG strategies, Tony Cho founded the Future of Cities business platform in 2021 to fast-forward regenerative placemaking as “a development approach that protects existing neighborhoods by co-creating sutainable, eco-friendly and inclusive projects, emphasizing participatory planning cross-sector collaboration, and financial prosperity for the community” (Tohme, 2023). The expanding universe of placemaking leadership Placemaking strategies are in the toolkit of almost every organization involved in building the future of cities and communities. Placemaking values, principles, practices, and strategies have so permeated the development arena that businesses and organizations employ without naming them. Observing a few examples, the reality of place is threaded through all implicit and explicit disciplines involving future development of the material world. Bloomberg CityLab Lambda

### CREATIVE PLACEMAKING *(Page)*

### LIVABLE CITIES LAB *(Page)*
Livable cities don’t just happen. They are the work of business, government, nonprofit, and community leaders who think beyond themselves and pool their ideas, resources, and social capital to solve problems and create opportunities available to everyone in their cities. Future-oriented leaders know that collaboration and cooperation within help make a city stronger in an increasingly competitive global economy where cities around the world compete for resources, opportunities, and talent. CITYLAB: Adaptive “catalyst” leaders Tapping into today’s urban innovation networks Urbanization is transforming the world in ways that are making cities unsustainable. Cities are also filled with energetic, generous leaders who are catalysts of conscientious change for a more livable future. CityLab connects students with catalyst leaders, including CityLab alumni, whose experience, professional networks, and expertise are revitalizing neighborhoods and communities throughout the city, the country, and the world. Working together on projects in struggling city communities, the current generation of leaders create a living legacy by mentoring and inspiring the next generation of leaders to continue the work of building livable cities for livable future. Networks of neighborhoods: Strong neighborhoods make strong cities Neighborhoods — a convergence of place and people – are the organic cell structure of cities. Cities are a mix of rich and poor, highly valued and undervalued, struggling and strong neighborhoods, but every city is stronger when all its neighborhoods are strong. CityLab focuses on neighborhoods struggling with livability challenges – living laboratories of experimentation and adaptive change where neighborhood leaders are working to build innovative business, economic, and social ecosystems that foster sustainable habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizens, and inclusive prosperity. The Convergence: Urbanization, Industrialization, Globalization, and Capitalism Urbanization is largely a convergence of industrial capitalism that has flooded the world with an almost endless supply of products that make our lives more comfortable -- certainly in wealthier nations like the United States, Europe, and China where electricity, indoor climate control and plumbing, washers and dryers, pharmaceuticals, automobiles, airplanes, restaurants, cinemas, and the internet greatly reduce the workload of daily living while expanding options for leisure and entertainment. Concentrating the production and distribution of these modern conveniences in cities makes them more affordable, so people have gravitated to cities to enjoy the social and material infrastructure of modern life. Over the years, the unintended consequences of modern life have taken a toll on humanity and the planet. Unintended consequences of modern life As catalysts of commerce, culture, and community, cities now account for: 2% of global land mass 54% of humanity (66% in 2050) 60% of global energy consumption 70% of greenhouse gas emissions 70% of global waste 70% of global GDP The future of humanity and the planet hinges on our ability to manage challenges that disrupt urban habitats, people, communities, civic order, and economic security throughout the world. Fortunately, the resources for solving global challenges are also concentrated in cities; we can choose to leverage these resources to build more livable communities. Reinventing cities for the future: Your CityLab Like everyone in the world, you are living in the Urban Century laboratory. Whether your are living in densely populated Manhattan (72,918 residents per square mile) or the sparsely populated Turtle Mountain Nation in North Dakota (9.7 residents per square mile), urbanization has an indelible impact on the way you live. Think about how you eat and where you get your food. In the past one hundred years, the food system has changed dramatically from locally produced and consumed foods to

### LEARNING PATHWAYS AND DELIVERABLES *(SubHeader)*

### CITYLAB CATALYST SYLLABUS *(Page)*
24F1 CityLab Catalyst Syllabus-2.pdf

### CITYLAB CATALYST LEARNING PATHWAYS *(Page)*
CITYLAB IS LEARNING THROUGH EXPERIENCE There is no busy work, memorization of formulae or algorithms and no quizzes, exams, or term papers to document your learning. There is a lot of work, but most of it you can organize around your schedule. You document your learning by creating a digital portfolio that tells the story of your learning experience. The CityLab Catalyst is organized in five parallel learning pathways that run concurrently with your fieldwork learning experience. The week-by-week modules can each be completed in a week, but you may begin working before the formal course start date and continue beyond it. The Catalyst learning pathways are an opportunity to develop habits of inquiry and discovery that will continue throughout your life as you look for ways to transform wicked livability problems into innovative placemaking opportunities. These five learning pathways extend far beyond intellectual and analytical knowledge and skills to develop more complex multi-modal intelligence, dispositions, and capabilities that characterize innovative, adaptive leaders. LEARNING PATH 1: Becoming your best self – qualities and habits of m ulti-modal intelligence in an urban context of complexity, uncertainty, risk, and opportunity. Ethical values: Act with integrity. Discipline: Cultivate habits of purposeful intelligence, empathy, and self-control. Inclusion and equity: Value and connect with people across boundaries. Adaptive innovation: Discover innovative solutions to complex challenges. Resilience: Welcome challenges as an opportunity to grow. Collaboration: Share power and resources to envision and strive for the common good. LEARNING PATH 2: Understanding urban challenges as a convergence of systemic global and local forces shaping city habitat, people, communities, power, and economies . Humans have become an urban species, with the majority of people now living in urban areas. Cities are a human invention built for commerce, but not for human wellbeing. The livability of cities is an adaptive challenge that will determine the future of humanity and the planet. Most cities have not galvanized the resources and managerial capacities to resolve their livability challenges. LEARNING PATH 3: Exploring placemaking innovation strategies to foster more livable cities: Livable habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizens, and inclusive prosperity . Cities are places where people and the built environment can harmonize with nature. Cities can be designed for human livability and livelihood. Cities are rich in untapped human talent. Humans have a history of creating successful, innovative solutions to adaptive challenges. The next generation can seize the adaptive challenge of urbanization to build livable places for a livable future. LEARNING PATH 4: Building your placemaking innovation toolkit – skills and practices that enable you to transform urban livability challenges into business innovation opportunities for prosocial impact and equity. Data resources: Curated data and information sources Technology: Data visualization software, digital media Interpretive methods: Mash-up ethnography, appreciative inquiry, soundprints, asset mapping, performance art, narrative Integrative: Critical reflection, journaling, mindfulness Interactive: Design thinking, teamwork, focus groups, collaborative processes, consensus, empathic listening, focused conversation LEARNING PATH 5: Growing your urban innovation network of boundary-spanning collaborative partnerships to accelerate innovative action for urban livability impact and equity . Personal: Friends and family Academic: Classmates, faculty, & alumni Professional: Formal and informal groups of shared occupational and business sector identities, interests, and pursuits Affiliation: Formal and informal voluntary associations and groups of shared interests, identity, purpose, location, or concerns Intentional: Groups and associations of shared commitment to specif

### CATALYST LEADERSHIP: VALUES AND ETHICS *(Page)*

### CITYLAB FIELDWORK *(Page)*
Fieldwork is the art and practice of discovery to understand a place -- its natural environments, people, communities, and cultures -- through direct observation and engagement. Fieldwork involves being in a place, usually for an extended period of time, to observe and experience the material and social contexts that influence people (or animals and natural phenomena such as climate), relationships, beliefs, attitudes, and behavior. Fieldwork practices and research methods vary according to disciplines. Natural scientists may combine qualitative and quantitative methods to collect detailed data about animal and plant species in a particular habitat. Some social scientists may combine qualitative and quantitative methods to collect data to discover patterns of social influence on human behavior while others may learn more towards qualitative methods to understand people more deeply in a particular context. Examples might be a geographic or ethnic neighborhood, work or family system, or conditions such as stress, life transitions, or events. CityLab fieldwork intentionally utilizes more qualitative methods, primarily ethnography, for a deeper, broader understanding of what it means to thrive in complex urban environments. Your fieldwork practice will include several intensive weeks of urban ethnography. The purpose of your urban ethnography fieldwork is two-fold: 1) Deeper understanding and appreciation of yourself as an urban lab native and aspiring urban lab leader; and 2) Deeper understanding and appreciation of people in your lab community whose material and social conditions may be very different from your own.

### THE CITYLAB PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
WHAT'S YOUR STORY? In CityLab, there are no tests or term papers. You tell your story. Everyone has a story to tell! How do people know your story? Who is telling your story? Your CityLab Portfolio makes you the author of your own placemaking story -- who you are and how you can make a difference in your community. The CityLab Portfolio organizes and documents your entire CityLab experience in a digital platform that you can continue updating and refining for years to come. Unlike many academic projects that shove days, weeks, or even months of toil and struggle into a dusty shelf or lost cyberspace corner, your CityLab Portfolio transforms your work into compelling stories that you can share with anyone – a prospective employer, client, business partner, or investor – from your own website or social media channel. People are natural storytellers – and you have your own stories to tell! Creating a narrative – a story – is the way people make sense of their experience. You already have a narrative – partly conscious and partly unconscious – about cities and what makes them livable. Part of your work in CityLab is to examine your own narrative about cities in light of the literature, the data, and the various perspectives that people create from very different experiences of cities. Your fieldwork is a way of exploring the livability of placees through conversations and encounters with people whose experience is different from yours. You begin building your CityLab Portfolio by exploring and interpreting placemaking literature, projects, and CityLab theme content in light of your own experience. You bring that to your fieldwork where you encounter new places, people, and perspectives that spark new impressions and idea. You will examine how underlying values of integrity, equity, justice, care, and freedom that form the foundation of all human communities are expressed and observed in your lab community. New experiences generate new stories. You will create two stories for your CityLab Portfolio based on your CityLab Catalyst experience: Your Story of Placemaking: Who are you – and who do you aspire to be – as a placemaking leader in your community? How are you preparing yourself to take on the challenges of being an placemaking leader?What worries and inspires about the future of your community? How do you envision your business or profession as a platform for building a more livable world for yourself, your family, and your community? What livability challenges and opportunities do you want to tackle in the near or extended future? The learning pathways of the CityLab Catalyst provide you with the basic architecture of your story Your Community Story of Place: How did you choose your lab community? What are your first impressions? What places, people, events, and activities define the community? What do the places, people, events, and activities say about its livability? How do community members understand and express their views about healthy habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizenship, and shared prosperity? What do people love about their community? What do people worry about? As you begin to experience the community more fully, how are your first impressions changing (or remaining the same)? Your story will include artifacts that you create to make your story come alive – writing samples, field notes, data visualization schemas, photos, videos, drawings, soundprints, inquiry tools, conceptual models, artwork. By the end of the CityLab Catalyst, your portfolio will be a thoughtfully blended narrative enhanced with artifacts that tell your personal story as an urban innovation leader as well as the story of your CityLab neighborhood. HOMESTEADING ON THE WEB: CREATING YOUR DIGITAL PORTFOLIO You may be a digital native with plenty of real estate on the web. If you haven't yet created your own "home on the web" -- check out the links below for advice on how to get started. How I set up my personal webs

### CITYLAB WEEK BY WEEK *(Page)*
F1 24 CITYLAB CATALYST WEEK BY WEEK.pdf

### ACTIVE LEARNING STRATEGY *(SubHeader)*

### CREATE YOUR LEARNING PATH *(Page)*
CityLab puts you in charge of your own learning. As an adult, you are in the habit of learning through experience on the job, in your relationships, and in your community. The CityLab Learning Pathways reflect the shared experience of hundreds of CityLab alumni. This is a good place to start your own deliberation and discernment about which multimodal intelligence skills you need to cultivate as an innovative, adaptive leader ready to tackle the challenges of a fast-changing world. It is unlikely that you will try to master everything on the list. Begin with a vision of your future leadership self in mind. Reflecting on your self-understanding and the five learning pathways, how would you describe your future leadership self? Summarize your reflections in a short paragraph. As you reflect on the learning pathways, what qualities, knowledge, and skills stand out either as new areas you think would be useful to pursue or familiar areas that need more work to actualize your vision of your future leadership self. What additional areas would you like to add to your learning path? Reflect on the key areas you have identified for your learning path. How would you prioritize your top five or six? Write a sentence or two for each priority area in your learning path explaining how it will actualize your vision of yourself as an innovative, adaptive social impact leader. These reflections are not assignments to turn in for a grade. They are intended for you to clarify for yourself how to make the most of the CityLab Catalyst learning experience to achieve your goals.

### PLAN YOUR FIELDWORK *(Page)*
The CityLab Catalyst fieldwork is an intensively immersive experience designed for you to activate your learning. As you engage with CityLab community week by week in your fieldwork, you will be creating and assembling content for your portfolio. By the end of the course, you will organize your portfolio content into a story about you and a story about your lab community. The following steps are a general guide to planning and conducting your CityLab fieldwork. You should plan to study the CityLab Preview fieldwork resources and select methods and tools that best fit your purpose, situation, and lab community. As you gain experience and expertise you may wish to adapt the guidelines. For more on fieldwork. refer to URBAN ETHNOGRAPHY in the CityLab Preview. Depending on your situation, you may be doing you fieldwork alone or with a group. If you are doing you fieldwork alone, it is likely that you will be teamed up with at least one other classmate to share observations and insights about your CityLab experience even if you are not doing your fieldwork together. ACTIVITIES Artifacts for your CityLab Portfolio STEPS INDIVIDUAL TEAM QUESTION What do you want to understand? Why is it important? Define a key question and write a paragraph explaining how and why this question expresses your curiosity about the city’s character, challenges and opportunities. Share and compare your questions and paragraphs with your team. LOCATION Where will you focus your fieldwork inquiry? Create a story map with a mapping tool and locate your city and proposed CityLab fieldwork site. Write a paragraph explaining how exploring this site will illluminate understanding of your city’s character, challenges and opportunities. Discuss points of similarity and difference with your team. Explore ways you can collaborate. DATA INQUIRY What can you learn about your city from public and open data sources? Construct a data visualization display of key facts about your city with a paragraph explaining how this data illuminates its unique character, challenges, and opportunities Compare and critique your data visualizations and paragraphs. Discuss what you are learning from the data and each other. LITERATURE REVIEW What can you learn about your city from domain knowledge scholarship, journalism, media, and other sources of public discourse? Write a paragraph that summarizes and synthesizes at least two domain knowledge sources and apply these sources to illuminate what you want to understand about your city’s character, challenges, and opportunities. Compare and critique your interpretations of knowledge sources. Discuss what you are learning from the literature and each other. SITE PREVIEW How well does the proposed site align with your inquiry? Make a brief daytime visit with a companion to your proposed CityLab fieldwork site. Create map notes (with photos, and other artifacts) identifying places of obvious interest or activity. Search and explore community websites and social media. Include a paragraph describing your initial observations, feelings, and questions about the neighborhood as a site for exploring your city’s character, challenges, and opportunities. Share, compare, and reflect together on your preliminary site visit experiences. Discuss how these initial experiences may validate or limit its suitability as a CityLab fieldwork site. INQUIRY ANALYSIS Should you redefine or reframe your question? Analyze and refine your question in light of your preliminary study of data, literature, and site preview. Compare and critique your focus questions. Discuss how to refine your questions. SITE ANALYSIS Should you redefine your fieldwork site? Analyze and redefine your CityLab fieldwork site in light of your preliminary study. Identify and assess assets. risks, constraints, and potential problems. Compare and discuss site assets. Risks, constraints, and problems. METHODS What methods of inquiry will you choose? Examine, select, and justify method(s) and to

### CREATE YOUR DIGITAL PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
The CityLab Digital Portfolio is your primary deliverable that you will work on for the entire eight weeks of the CityLab Catalyst course. This page provides you with an overview of the process involved in creating your Digital Portfolio. For details, check the Digital Portfolio Assignment in Canvas. You will create your Digital Portfolio on a digital platform (of your choice) for organizing and documenting your entire CityLab experience. Each learning module is a thematic exploration of livable cities involving multiple modes of learning: 1) Reading, media and digital content; 2) Field work; 3) Teams collaboration and discussion; 4) Critical reflection and projection; and 5) Creation of learning artifacts. Working progressively through CityLab Catalyst modules and your fieldwork, you will assemble material to create your CityLab Portfolio. The digital portfolio is intended as your "home on the web" to continue building and revising throughout your career as an innovative social impact leader. Homesteading on the Web You probably have a social media feed such as Instagram, X, or TicTok, a professional networking site such as LinkedIn, or even a website that enables you to share experiences and ideas with others. If you haven't yet created your own "home on the web" -- or if you want to think more strategically about how you project yourself professionally on the web, check out the links below for advice on how to get started. How I set up my personal website . Chris Uehlinger. 2014. Top 10 Best Website Builders . 2023. How to make a website~ Tutorial for beginners . WebYoda. 2023. Portfolio Artifacts Artifacts are materials that you create – writing samples, field notes, data visualization schemas, photos, videos, drawings, sound prints, inquiry tools, conceptual models, artwork – as evidence of your learning and achievement each week. By the end of the CityLab Catalyst, you will have a wealth of artifacts that you will assemble in two Pecha Kucha presentations as thoughtfully blended visually illustrated narratives to tell two stories of your CityLab Catalyst experience. Your Professional Profile as a Placemaking leader: Who are you – and who do you aspire to be – as an innovative social impact leader in your community? How are you preparing yourself to take on the challenges of being an innovation leader? What worries and inspires about the future of your community? How do you envision your business and profession as a platform for building a more livable world for yourself, your family, and your community? What livability challenges and opportunities do you want to tackle in the near or extended future? The learning pathways of the CityLab Catalyst provide you with the basic architecture of your story. The Community Profile of your CityLab fieldwork community. How did you choose your lab community? What are your first impressions? What places, people, events, and activities define the community? What do the places, people, events, and activities say about its livability? How do community members understand and express their views about healthy habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizenship, and shared prosperity? What do people love about their community? What do people worry about? As you begin to experience the community more fully, how are your first impressions changing or remaining the same? The Pecha Kucha Presentation Format (20/20) The Pecha Kucha format is a narrated story using a deck of 20 images automatically timed to synchronize the speaker or presenter voice narrative to 20 seconds for each slide. Study how to create a Pecha Kucha presentation before beginning the assignment: https://youtu.be/hC86_sVwkhE . The Pecha Kucha format enables you to articulate uniquely crisp, creative, and engaging “personal best��� stories that you can easily remember and continue to develop and adapt in years to come. The Pecha Kucha stories in your CityLab Digital Portfolio are a way to introduce yourself, sh

## M1 | CITYLAB LAUNCH -- CHECK OUT YOUR WATERFRONT!

### BALTIMORE HARBOR WALKING TOUR | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2024, 2-4 PM  *(Page)*
Optional fieldwork for students located in Baltimore. Meet in the circle at the front door of the Carey Business School at 2 PM -- be prompt! Wear comfortable shoes and clothing. Contact Professor Thompson if you have questions: lthompson@jhu.edu LIVING, WORKING, AND PLAYING ON THE WATERFRONT How smart is your city about water? Smartgrowth Waterfront Cities_fullreport.pdf

### LEARNING YOUR CITY  *(Page)*
How do you learn your city? Pay attention to places, people, and activities you see everyday without seeing. Take a walk by the main water source in your city -- a river, a lake, a harbor -- and pay attention to how it looks, feels, and smells. How does the natural environment harmonize -- or not -- with the built environment? How do people relate to the water? How do you relate to the the water? Do you now what this waterfront looked like 50 years ago? 100 years ago? What was it like when the first people settled by the water? Who created the first human settlements? What is the role of water in the city's economy and livability? Watch people as you walk. What kind of expressions do you see on people's faces? Is their body language relaxed, tense, playful, purposeful? Do you see old people, young people, singles, couples? How many families do you see? What can you observe about the families you see? What do you know about how easy or difficult it is for families to thrive in your city? How do parents arrange for care of small children and frail elderly grandparents when they are working? You know how to make your city work for you. Most of us settle into a fairly stable daily/weekly pattern of work, shopping, childcare, and other sites of daily or weekly tasks. One way to learn your city is to question an aspect of your own life that are experiences shared by many other people in your community. Two examples might be water and childcare. Water is essential for life. Water comes through your tap for drinking, cooking, bathing, washing clothes, cleaning your home, watering your lawn -- and you pay the water bill when it comes due. But how much do you think about the infrastructure that makes your water possible? The US drinking water infrastructure system is made up of 2.2 million miles of underground pipes delivering safe and reliable water to millions of people. 16,000 wastewater treatment plants currently function, on average, at 81 percent of their design capacities; 15 percent of these facilities have reached or exceeded their design capacity. Most states have s tormwater utility systems, but u r ban flooding is placing increasing strain on them . The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law made a historic investment of $50 billion for water infrastructure through the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund programs, but these investments require appropriations from Congress to uphold funding. Working parents need childcare for their children -- and sometimes they need elder care for their parents. The work-childcare-home triangle, a common travel pattern for families with working parents and young children, is documented in a recent pre-COVID Maryland study examining the economic cost of inadequate childcare (Talbert et al. 2018. Counting Our Losses: Terhe Hidden Cost to Marylanders of an Inadequate Childcare System . Maryland Family Network). In tracking US household mobility patterns, the US Department of Transportation documents how COVID-19 pandemic has permanently altered daily travel patterns, especially in congested urban areas, but for most of us, normal habits of daily living constrain the operational geography of average household travel patterns to a small fraction of a city. So, however long you have lived in your city, it is likely that you still have a lot to learn about the various neighborhoods and communities in your city. Cities are complex, dynamic organisms that cannot be understood from one location or perspective. You are unlikely to be an effective urban innovation leader if you don't expand your operational geography to places and people that are outside your current frame of reference. Your fieldwork is intended to expand your operational geography. Not just as a disengaged tourist, but as an engaged "familiar" learning to understand, appreciate, and even love parts of your city that may now seem unknowable to you. As you explore ways to learn your city, the prospect of fieldwork in an unfamilia

### FIELDWORK: DISCOVERY *(Page)*
What is Fieldwork? Fieldwork is the art and practice of discovery to understand natural environments, people, communities, and cultures through direct observation and engagement. Fieldwork involves being in a place, usually for an extended period of time, to observe and experience the material and social contexts that influence people (or animals and natural phenomena such as climate), relationships, beliefs, attitudes, and behavior. Fieldwork practices and research methods vary according to disciplines. Natural scientists may combine qualitative and quantitative methods to collect detailed data about animal and plant species in a particular habitat. Some social scientists may combine qualitative and quantitative methods to collect data to discover patterns of social influence on human behavior while others may learn more towards qualitative methods to understand people more deeply in a particular context. Examples might be a geographic or ethnic neighborhood, work or family system, or conditions such as stress, life transitions, or events. CityLab fieldwork intentionally utilizes more qualitative methods, primarily ethnography, for a deeper, broader understanding of what it means to thrive in complex urban environments. Your fieldwork practice will be several intensive weeks of urban ethnography. The purpose of your urban ethnography fieldwork is two-fold: 1) Deeper understanding and appreciation of yourself as an urban person and aspiring urban innovation leader; and 2) Deeper understanding and appreciation of people in your city or community whose material and social conditions are very different from your own. Video Transcript

### URBAN ETHNOGRAPHY *(Page)*
What is urban ethnography? Forrest Stuart, Urban Ethnography , Oxford Bibliographies, February 24, 2021 If ethnography is the study of people as they negotiate their everyday lives, then urban ethnography is the study of how urban residents and other inhabitants make sense of their daily social worlds, navigate surrounding communities, and manage the broader forces that structure the urban experience. Methodologically, it privileges deep, immersive fieldwork alongside research participants. Substantively, it focuses on interactions and institutions that define urban space, whether those are public streets, neighborhood organizations, or community events. Urban ethnographies have traditionally thought of “communities” geographically, examining how the central topics of poverty, crime, culture, and peer group formation play out in delimited spaces such as neighborhoods, wards, and districts. Theoretically, it has historically tended to draw on social-constructionist and interactionist orientations, conceiving of the urban life as something “built up,” so to speak, from repeated and ritualized encounters. As one of the longest-standing and iconic subfields of sociology, anthropology, and other humanistic social sciences, urban ethnography remains one of the most influential modes of understanding social life in cities. True to form as one of the most conflictual and controversial subfields, an increasing number of scholars are pushing back on convention, insisting on the need to embrace theoretical orientations that are more critical and structurally focused, and to more adequately consider the global forces and relational dynamics that exist beyond, but fatefully impinge upon, bounded field sites. As urban ethnography’s readership has grown, so too have methodological critiques regarding replicability, as well as concerns about potential exploitation and voyeurism among its practitioners and readership. Urban ethnography resources University of Copenhagen, Global Urban Studies Summer School. Online Mini-lectures. New Urban Life Across the Globe: Activism and Change in a World of Cities. Summer 2018. These mini-lectures were designed for an international group of professionals from diverse fields learning to apply urban ethnography methods in their work. LECTURE 1: Anders Blok: "URBAN ETHNOGRAPHY" Segment 1A: The tradition of urban ethnography LECTURE 2: Amanda Hammar: "MOVING METHODOLOGIES" Segment 2: Moving Methods in Practice LECTURE 3: Anders Blok: "SITUATIONAL MAPPING AND ANALYSIS" Segment 1B: Methodology Sophie Yetton and Suzanne Hall, Ordinary Streets , LSE Cities, London School of Economics and Political Science, 2015 This short film is an example of urban ethnography exploring an immigrant community in South London. Urban Ethnography Lab, Methods , Humboldt University Berlin, Institute for Contemporary Design, and University of Toronto This transatlantic collaboration promotes interdisciplinary ethnographic research methods. The site includes summaries and notes from recent workshops.

### APPRECIATIVE INQUIRY *(Page)*
Why (and what is) appreciative inquiry? Laboratory methods very often focus on problems, causes, and fixes. CityLab fieldwork will certainly include exploration of problems, but rather than focus only on the problems, CityLab encourages a positive approach to understanding situational challenges. Consider, for example, how CityLab frames livable city themes and strategies: Sustainable habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizens, and shared prosperity . We are not focusing on toxic habitat, fragile people, fractured communities, disenfranchised citizens, and poverty, even though we certainly work to understand and find solutions to these problems. Why the difference? CityLab focuses the strengths we bring to building the kind of world and future we want to live in rather than on the problems that make it hard to live. The positive framing of inquiry and discovery encourages a positive, confident approach to changes that may be difficult but possible. A positive approach to change is especially important when getting to know communities with more challenges than you are accustomed to in your neighborhood. All people have strengths, wherever they are and whatever challenges they face. In every neighborhood there are things that people like and and appreciate about it. A conversation by talking about what people like about living in their neighborhood and their hopes for the neighborhood is usually is more productive than a conversation that begins what's wrong. Appreciative Inquiry is designed for community engagement and organizational change, but it is a useful method to use in teamwork and in urban ethnography fieldwork to look for positive human experiences, human strengths, and positive institutions. Appreciative inquiry resources The AI Commons : Virtual hub of Appreciative Inquiry resources, people, events, and gatherings. David Cooperider - Appreciative Inquiry : Video featuring an Appreciative Inquiry founder talking about business as an agent of world benefit How to use Appreciative Inquiry to Engage People: Video on using Appreciative Inquiry to tackle complex problems. Appreciative Inquiry + Visuals : Video mini-session on using Appreciation Inquiry to facilitate discovery meetings. How to do an Appreciative Inquiry Interview . Video about interviewing business leaders.

### ASSET MAPPING *(Page)*
What is asset mapping? Asset mapping is a collaborative exercise or tool for identifying the positive attributes, strengths, and resources of a community. Whatever the state of your lab community, understanding asset mapping can help you begin your fieldwork with a positive attitude. Asset mapping is especially important in communities that are defined by their problems. All communities have assets that may be overlooked and undervalued, especially by outsiders. Whatever your initial reactions and responses to your lab community, it is the people who live, work, and spend time there who are most aware of its assets. Focusing on assets encourages people to think positively about themselves and their future, fostering confidence about their ability to find creative solutions to problems. As you explore the places in your lab community, pay attention to your initial response. It is important to acknowledge and interrogate your own responses and what you infer from your observations of others. How do you feel as you walk around and explore the physical space of your lab community? What specific sights, sounds, smells, or sensations prompt your responses? As you observe people and animals, what do you infer from their behavior -- do they seem relaxed, anxious, friendly, or cautious in they way the move in places that are probably very familiar to them? What specific sights, sounds, smells, or sensations prompt your inferences? How do you assess the accuracy of your responses and inferences? Asset mapping tools and methods A Guide to Asset Mapping . Guide to Asset Mapping.pdf . Bank of IDEAS . Asset mapping for digital inclusion . New York State Library System. 2023. Google My Maps: Everything you need to know! GoDelta Labs. 2023. Habitat: Assets of place Take note of the physical assets of the community's natural and built environment. Tree canopy, parks, boulevards, and open areas Plantings, yards, and green spaces around buildings Materials, design, and arrangement of homes and other buildings Rivers, beaches, ponds, fountains, creeks, and other water features Recreational facilities Commercial buildings Public service and government buildings and facilities Shopping areas Streetscapes Traffic patterns Utilities, transit, and material infrastructure Fences, walls, and physical barriers Public art

### DATA AND INFORMATION RESOURCES *(Page)*
Finding data about cities and communities Reliable data is an essential tool for understanding cities and urban communities. As you plan and conduct your fieldwork, data provides you with background and contextual information that helps you make sense of what you are observing and experiencing in your fieldwork. Sometimes you will find contradictory evidence that drives you deeper into the data and as well as into observations and conversations to construct a full picture of what is actually happening. With the proliferation of data and information on the internet, it is crucial that you use reliable, reputable sources of data. A good place to start is the Johns Hopkins Sheridan Libraries online data services, but you may wish to add your own sources as you begin exploring the vast field of data platforms related to cities and communities. US Census Bureau: Interactive Maps US Census Bureau: Cities Johns Hopkins Sheridan Libraries Databases . Log in with your JHED credentials. Johns Hopkins Sheridan Libraries Statistics . Log in with your JHED credentials. Simply Analytics Data analytics platform and tools hosted by Johns Hopkins. Create and account with your JHED credentials. Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance (BNIA). Quality of life indicators for Baltimore neighborhoods. Brookings Metro Monitor 2021 . Interactive tool tracking inclusive economic growth performance of 192 US metro areas. (2022 not available) National Association of Counties County Explorer. Interactive tool to access snapshot data for every county in the US. Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Economic Development . Online federal services hub for economic development Local data and tools City and county governments are good sources free public access to local community data, information, and geomapping services. Some universities and colleges also provide similar services. Many jurisdictions aggregate data by council districts or neighborhoods to create community profiles with interactive maps. A good place to start is the local government website for your city or county. You will also find that local business associations and chambers of commerce, and community groups are also likely to create community profiles designed to attract and welcome new businesses and residents. Local nonprofit and public interest groups often produce data and reports focused on issues related to their mission. The local resources for Baltimore MD are examples of the kind of data and tools you can find in communities almost anywhere in the United States. Baltimore MD Click on the links below for examples of local data and information sources. You will find similar sources in your community. Baltimore City Government Baltimore City Department of Planning: Interactive Map Gallery Perkins Somerset Oldtown Transformation Plan . Housing Authority of Baltimore City. 2023. Live Baltimore. Neighborhoods Baltimore Development Corporation Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance Baltimore Metro Council CLLCTIVLY: Building Black Futures Together UPSURGE Baltimore South Baltimore Gateway Partnership Perkins Somerset Oldtown Transformation Plan. East Baltimore Revitalization Report . Southern Baptist Church . 2017. Jonestown Vision Plan . Historic Jonestown Community Association. 2015.

### M1 | YOUR ACTIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK | FIELDWORK AND DIGITAL PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
Every week you should plan, organize, and monitor your progress: Achieving goals you have set for the CityLab Learning Pathways . Conducting your fieldwork. Constructing your Digital Portfolio and the Professional and Community Pecha Kucha Profiles . Conducting your CityLab fieldwork However meticulous you are in crafting your fieldwork plan, it is likely that your first site visit to your lab community or neighborhood will prompt changes. As you get better acquainted, you will probably adjust your fieldwork to accommodate new discoveries and interpretations of what you are observing and experiencing. This is normal. The guide below is intended as a suggested step-by-step framework, but you are free to adapt the steps to fit your community. It is a good idea to talk about your fieldwork plans and changes with your team members. Even if you are all working in different sites, you are learning together from your experiences and from each other. Constructing your CityLab portfolio Remember that your Digital Portfolio Home Page is due next week! REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability A convergence of systemic global forces threatening city habitat, people, communities, power, and economies How are urban livability challenges relevant to your job, your business/professional sector, and your future? What is the impact of urban livability challenges on your city community? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions Reimagine how cities could work to sustain life: Habitat, people, communities, power, economy How are livability strategies and business solutions relevant to your future as a leader? What is the impact of urban livability strategies and solutions operating in your city community? Becoming a CityLab leader Deep self-understanding and multi-modal intelligence in an urban context of complexity and uncertainty How are multimodal intelligence leadership capabilities relevant for you as a leader? What is the impact of leaders exercising multimodal intelligence in your city community? Building your placemaking toolkit Skills and practices that position you to transform urban livability challenges into innovation opportunities What transformative skills and practices are relevant for your toolkit as an placemaking leader? What is the impact of leaders applying placemaking skills and practices in your city community? Growing your placemaking network Boundary-spanning catalyst leaders accelerating innovative, transformative action for urban livability How are you connected to the people and organizations leading placemaking in your city community? What is the impact of placemaking leaders in your city community? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds How do you want to begin your story of placemaking leadership? How do you want to begin the story of your CityLab community?

### DUE THIS WEEK | Assignment 1: Honor Statement. September 1, 2024  *(SubHeader)*

## M2 | LIVABLE CITIES

### LIVABLE CITIES: THE ADAPTIVE CHALLENGE *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Liveable Cities.pdf

### LIVABLE CITIES THEMES *(Page)*
Livable Cities A livable city is a dynamic, organic network of urban villages: Eco-communities of nature, places, people, institutions, cultures, and commerce that enable the present generation to flourish without compromising capabilities and opportunities for future generations. Building livable cities requires knowledge, strategies, and practices that address challenges of habitat, people, communities, citizenship, and prosperity. Click here for an accessible version of this click and reveal graphic. THEME 1: Healthy habitat Stewardship of nature and the natural ecosystem Attractive, safe, walkable streetscapes, public spaces, and multi-use destination venues Built environment that blends with the natural environment and ecosystems to sustain life and enhance historic roots, local culture, and social infrastructure Smart infrastructure design and execution that harmonizes with natural habitat and human activity Safe, attractive, affordable homes for diverse homeowners, renters, ages, incomes, and lifestyles THEME 2: Healthy people High quality, accessible, affordable health and wellness care Nourishing, affordable, abundant, and accessible food High quality, enriching, affordable childcare, family support systems, and developmentally-appropriate education for a lifelong love of learning Healthy growth opportunities for people of diverse ages, traditions, incomes, identities, and lifestyles THEME 3: Resilient communities Inclusive social infrastructure of accessible, welcoming places and spaces for informal communication, interaction, and neighborliness Inclusive collaborative practices for sharing ideas, values, goals, and concerns Robust, timely disaster and crisis response infrastructure to protect and restore functionality to people and systems Branding/bonding events, places, and spaces that celebrate community identity, values, traditions, milestones, and connections to place THEME 4: Empowered citizens Lifelong education for personal agency, active citizenship, and civic leadership Inclusive social infrastructure for exercising civic responsibility and action Responsive, proactive, and accountable public officials, policy, practices, and services Robust, timely disaster and crisis response infrastructure to restore functionality THEME 5: Inclusive prosperity Ethical business, finance, and public sector governance Education for economic competence and productivity Proactive intersectional initiatives to eliminate structural inequities in economic opportunity Entrepreneurial, conscientious, and adaptive business community Diverse mix of business, professional, and nonprofit enterprises Robust public, private, and social investment vehicles Innovative capitalization of undervalued assets and public goods

### CITIES AND THE MAKING OF AMERICA *(Page)*

### GLOBAL MEGATRENDS *(Page)*
The Millennium Project: 15 Global Challenges How do these global challenges affect your life? your future? your community?

### POVERTY AND INEQUALITY: CHANGING THE NARRATIVE *(Page)*
Poverty and inequality We all have "unconscious narratives" that we create to make sense of the world. It is easy for our unconscious narratives to get stuck on " automatic replay" in a way that fails to reflect the changes in what is actually happening in the world around us. Poverty and inequality are good examples of unconscious narratives that are shaped by a constant flow of media, conversations, and events that barely register in our conscious mind. What is your "unconscious narrative" of poverty and inequality? When you think of what it means to be "poor" or "unequal" -- what kind of people, places, and contexts pop up as images your head? How do you relate to these images? How familiar are these images? Can you name the people, places, and events that form these images? How well do you actually know them? Talking about poverty and inequality: Kathryn Edin Kathryn Edin is one of foremost experts on poverty in America, authoring eight books and more than sixty journal articles. The critically acclaimed book, $2 a Day: The Art of Living on Virtually Nothing in America , co-authored with Luke Shaefer, was included in The New York Times 100 Notable Books of 2015, cited as “essential reporting about the rise in destitute families.” Catalyst Leader: Joseph Poupon Joseph Poupon is an example of how a small business can be catalyst of social innovation by creating ladders to opportunity and equity. Joseph Poupon launched his French pastry business in 1986. Hiring people off the streets in one of Baltimore's most distressed neighborhoods, Joseph built Pâtisserie Poupon into one of the most highly successful and acclaimed specialty food destinations in the Baltimore-Washington Metro Area. Pâtisserie Poupon pastry chefs have gone on to build their own successful careers in top restaurants and pastry shops all over the world. Video Transcript: Interview with Joseph Poupon.pdf

### BALTIMORE: A POST-INDUSTRIAL CITY LAB *(Page)*
Baltimore exemplifies many of the livability challenges facing post-industrial cities throughout the country. Wherever you live and work, you can learn from Baltimore's struggles to work through its livability challenges. As one of the first Industrial Age cities in the United States, Baltimore is gearing up to reinvent itself as 21st century city on the leading edge of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Grappling with "hard histories" of structural inequalities is one of the necessary catalysts of systemic and structural adaptation that enable cities, communities, and organizations forge a better future that values every member of society and leaves no one behind. EXPLORING WHOLE HISTORIES Racism and discrimination at Johns Hopkins: Hopkins Hard Histories Project BLAC: K LIVES MATTER Summer 2020 Public Opinion: Civis Analytics: BLM and Policing Pulse Survey Analysis A HISTORY OF RACIAL INEQUITY The Color of Law: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America C-Span Book TV Conversation : Richard Rothstein and Ta-Nehisi Coates INTERSECTIONAL EQUITY Thompson, L.J. (2020) “ Intersectional equity and business legitimacy ” in Handbook of Business Legitimacy, Rendtorff, ed. Springer International Publishing . BLACK RESILIENCE Audio: Linda Morris. Cherry Hill: Raising Successful Black Children in Jim Crow Baltimore . Palisades NY: History Publishing Company. 2018. THE BALTIMORE BLACK BUTTERFLY Video: Dr Lawrence Brown presents The Black Butterfly. 2021. Theodos, B., Hangen, E., Meixell, B., Foster, L. (2019) The Baltimore Black Butterfly: Racial Segregation and Investment Patterns in Baltimore . Washington DC: The Urban Institute. Mock, G. (2019). Are reparations Baltimore’s fix for redlining, investment deprivation? GENTRIFICATION Sutton, S. (2015). What we don’t understand about gentrification. TEDx New York. https://youtu.be/XqogaDX48nI Quarles, S. (2017). Gentrification and the next generation. TEDx Crenshaw. https://youtu.be/D3aJioRlYp8 BALTIMORE CATALYST LEADERS FOR EQUITY 1RACE: https://1racellc.com/ Black Butterfly Exchange: https://blkbtrfly.exchange/ Black Women Build: https://blackwomenbuild.org/ BMORENOMA: https://www.bmorenoma.org/ Chris Wilson: https://chriswilson.biz/ CLLCTIVLY: https://cllctivly.org/ Community Wealth Builders: https://www.communitywealthbuilders.org/ Fight Blight Baltimore: https://www.fightblightbmore.com/ Juxtopia: http://juxtopia.com/ Parity Homes: https://www.parityhomes.com/ South Baltimore Community Land Trust: https://www.sbclt.org/

### BONUS RESOURCES *(Page)*
There's always more . . . What's the connection between urban green spaces and social cohesion? GREEN SPACE.SOCIAL COHESION.pdf. Clarke, M., Cadaval, S., Wallace, C., Anderson, E., Egerer, M., Dinkins, L., & Platero, R. (2023). Factors that enhance or hinder social cohesion in urban greenspaces: A literature review. Urban Forestry & Urban Greening, 84 , 127936. doi:10.1016/j.ufug.2023.127936

### M2 | YOUR ACTIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK *(SubHeader)*

### M2 FIELDWORK *(Page)*
M2 LIVABLE CITIES FIELDWORK | Exploring livability in your community The following steps are a general guide to planning and conducting your CityLab fieldwork. You should plan to study the fieldwork resources and select methods and tools that best fit your purpose and situation. As you gain experience and expertise you may adapt the guidelines. Livable Cities Themes Healthy habitat Healthy people Resilient communities Empowered citizens Shared prosperity ACTIVITIES Artifacts for your CityLab Portfolio STEPS INDIVIDUAL TEAM QUESTION What do you want to understand? Why is it important? Formulate a question that focuses on an urgent livability challenge in your city. Share, compare, and critique your focus questions with your team. LOCATION Where will you focus your fieldwork inquiry? Locate your CityLab fieldwork site on your map with a note explaining how exploring this site will illluminate understanding of the livability challenge you have identified. Discuss points of similarity and difference with your team. Explore ways you can collaborate to deepen and amplify your understanding of livability challenges. DATA INQUIRY What can you learn about your city from public and open data sources? Drawing from public and local data sources, construct a data visualization display of key facts about the CityLab site with a paragraph explaining how this data illuminates the livability challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss your data visualizations, paragraphs, and what you are learning from the data and each other. LITERATURE REVIEW What can you learn about your city from domain knowledge scholarship, journalism, media, and other sources of public discourse? Write a paragraph that summarizes, synthesizes, and applies at least two domain knowledge sources to illuminate the livability challenge you have identified in your city and your CityLab site. Compare, critique, and discuss your interpretations of domain knowledge sources and what you are learning from the literature and each other. SITE ANALYSIS How well does the proposed site align with your inquiry? Based on your preliminary knowledge of the CityLab site, create a map note (with photos and other artifacts) that highlights specific points of interest relevant to the livability challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss the salience of your map notes in relation to the habitat sustsainability challenges you have identified. INQUIRY ANALYSIS Should you redefine or reframe your question? Applying what you have learned, refine your livablity question as needed in light of conditions in your fieldwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss how to refine your questions to fit your fieldwork site conditions. FIELDWORK METHODS What methods of inquiry will you choose? Apply a specific fieldwork method (e.g., asset mapping, appreciative inquiry), to create an inquiry instrument and implementation protocols that will generate robust findings in response to your livability question. Practice interview, conversations, and observation techniques. Compare, critique, and discuss as a team how to select and utlize fieldwork inquiry methods and tools effectively. Collaborate in writing implementation protocols and practicing fieldwork techniques. FIELDWORK PLAN What are the details of your fieldwork operation? Create a fieldwork checklist including: 1) Site map of the CityLab fieldwork area with an itinerary and timeline of specific places, people, and events where you will focus your observation and data collection; 2) Permissions (as necessary) for access to controlled locations and people; and 3) Tools (ID badges, devices, worksheets, notepad, pens, camera, microphone); Collaborate with team members in developing your fieldwork plan. Discuss and define how you will activate your highest level of multimodal intelligence in conducting your fieldwork. FIELDWORK OPERATIONS How will you conduct your field work? Follow your fieldwork plan with attention to condi

### M2 PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
M2 YOUR LIVABLE CITIES PORTFOLIO REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability A convergence of systemic global forces threatening city habitat, people, communities, power, and economies How did your fieldwork change your understanding of livability challenges? How will you use this understanding to build your career as an placemaking leader? How does your fieldwork discovery illumine livability challenges in your CityLab community and your city? What is the value of this discovery for your CityLab community? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions Reimagine how cities could work to sustain life: Habitat, people, communities, power, economy What livability strategies and solutions did you explore in your fieldwork? How will you use your exploration to build your career as an placemaking leader? What livability strategies and solutions did you discover within in your CityLab community? How does the community identify, build, and scale the business value of these strategies and solutions? Becoming a CityLab leader Deep self-understanding and multi-modal intelligence in an urban context of complexity and uncertainty How did your fieldwork challenge your multimodal intelligence? How will this challenge enhance your effectiveness as a leader? What examples of multi-modal intelligence did you observe in your CityLab community? How does the community identify, build, and scale the business value of these capabilities? Building your placemaking toolkit Skills and practices that position you to transform urban livability challenges into innovation opportunities How did your fieldwork stretch your placemaking skills and practices? How will this experience enhance your effectiveness as a leader? What examples of placemaking skills and practices did you observe in your CityLab community? How does the community identify, build, and scale the business value of these skills and practices? Growing your placemaking network Boundary-spanning catalyst leaders accelerating innovative, transformative action for urban livability How did your fieldwork expand your horizons of transformative placemaking? How will you build on this awareness to grow your placemaking network? What examples of transformative placemaking did you observe in your CityLab community? How does the community identify, build, and scale the business value of its placemaking network? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds What livability insights, observations, and experiences will enhance your story of placemaking leadership? What livability fieldwork insights, observations, and experiences will enhance story of your CityLab community?

### DUE THIS WEEK |  Assignment 2: Digital Portfolio Homepage. September 8, 2024 *(SubHeader)*

### WEEK 2 | CITYLAB DIGITAL PORTFOLIO HOME PAGE *(Assignment)*

## M3 | LIVABLE HABITAT

### LIVABLE HABITAT *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Sustainable Habitat.pdf

### WHAT IS A LIVABLE HABITAT? *(Page)*
Use the arrows below to navigate through this interactive StoryMap about Healthy Habitats. You can also click directly on the tags on the map. You can also download an accessible version of this StoryMap .

### OUR EARTH OUR HOME *(Page)*
Our Earth Our Home Paul Ferraro - Environmental Problems are Human Problems

### URBAN PLACES: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES *(Page)*
Transforming Urban Places What is transformative placemaking? Brookings Institution. 2019. Prosperity Beyond Profit. Sustainable Cities Index. Arcadia. 2022. Prosperity Beyond Profit.Sustainable Cities Index.2022 ARCADIS.pdf Baltimore: Old Town Mall After you select play, click and drag on the video to view a view of the Old Town Mall and surrounding neighborhood. Please note that the 360 player by Vimeo will only play when using one of the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Opera, or Edge. Video Transcript: Old Town Mall.pdf Samuel Demisse, Baltimore Entrepreneur - Keffa Coffee Video Transcript: Interview with Samuel Demisse.pdf

### EXPLORING LIVABLE HABITAT *(Page)*
Our Earth Our Home Everything you need to know about Planet Earth . Kurzgesagt. 2014. Rivers are life . Multi-sector collaboration. 2023. Explore Places. Places Journal . 2023 Land conservation StoryMaps . Find your landscape conservation network . The Landscape Conservation Cooperation Network . 2023. Building Healthy Places Toolkit . Urban Land Institute (ULI). 2015 Saving the bay . The Chesapeake Bay Foundation . 2023 Urban places . US Department of Agriculture Forestry Service. 2023 National environmental public health tracking . US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 2023. Systems thinking to tackle global sustainability challenges . Metabolic. 2023.

### M3 | YOUR ACTIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK *(SubHeader)*

### BONUS RESOURCES *(Page)*
There's always more . . . What's the connection between urban green spaces and social cohesion? GREEN SPACE.SOCIAL COHESION.pdf. Clarke, M., Cadaval, S., Wallace, C., Anderson, E., Egerer, M., Dinkins, L., & Platero, R. (2023). Factors that enhance or hinder social cohesion in urban greenspaces: A literature review. Urban Forestry & Urban Greening, 84 , 127936. doi:10.1016/j.ufug.2023.127936

### M3 FIELDWORK *(Page)*
Exploring places in your community Stewardship of nature and the natural ecosystem Attractive, safe, walkable streetscapes, public spaces, and multi-use destination venues Built environment that blends with the natural environment and ecosystems to sustain life and enhance historic roots, local culture, and social infrastructure Smart infrastructure design and execution that harmonizes with natural habitat and human activity Safe, attractive, affordable homes for diverse homeowners, renters, ages, incomes, and lifestyles ACTIVITIES Artifacts for your CityLab Portfolio STEPS INDIVIDUAL TEAM QUESTION What do you want to understand? Why is it important? Formulate a question that identifies and explains an urgent habitat sustainability climate challenge in your city. Share and compare your questions and paragraphs with your team. LOCATION Where will you focus your fieldwork inquiry? Locate and explore your city’s climate region on the LLCN map. Add the climate region layer to your storymap with a note explaining how exploring this site will illuminate understanding of urban habitat sustainability. contextualizing the regional climate dynamics of the habitat sustainabiliity challenge you have identified. Discuss points of similarity and difference with your team. Explore ways you can collaborate to deepen and amplify your understanding of habitat sustainability and climate challenges DATA INQUIRY What can you learn about your city from public and open data sources? Explore public and local data sources to construct a data visualization display and map note of key facts illustrating and illuminating the habitat challenge challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss your data visualizations, paragraphs, and what you are learning from the data and each other. LITERATURE REVIEW What can you learn about your city from domain knowledge scholarship, journalism, media, and other sources of public discourse? Write a paragraph that summarizes, synthesizes, and applies at least two domain knowledge sources to illuminate the habitat sustainability climate challenge you have identified for your city and CityLab site. Compare, critique, and discuss your interpretations of domain knowledge sources and what you are learning from the literature and each other. SITE ANALYSIS How well does the proposed site align with your inquiry? Based on your knowledge, create a map note (with photos and other artifacts) that highlights specific points of interest relevant to the habitat sustainability challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss the salience of your map notes in relation to the habitat sustainability challenge you have identified. INQUIRY ANALYSIS Should you redefine or reframe your question? Apply what you have learned to refine your question in light of conditions in your CityLab fieldwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss how to refine your questions to fit your fieldwork site conditions. FIELDWORK METHODS What methods of inquiry will you choose? Apply a specific fieldwork method to create an inquiry instrument and implementation protocols that will generate robust findings in response to your habitat sustainability question. Practice interview, conversations, and observation techniques. Compare, critique, and discuss as a team how to select and utlize fieldwork inquiry methods and tools effectively. Collaborate in writing implementation protocols and practicing fieldwork techniques. FIELDWORK PLAN What are the details of your fieldwork operation? Create a fieldwork checklist including: 1) Site map of the CityLab fieldwork area with an itinerary and timeline of specific places, people, and events where you will focus your observation and data collection; 2) Permissions (as necessary) for access to controlled locations and people; and 3) Tools (ID badges, devices, worksheets, notepad, pens, camera, microphone); Collaborate with team members in developing your fieldwork plan. Discuss and define how you will a

### M3 PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
M3 YOUR HEALTHY HABITAT PORTFOLIO REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability How did your fieldwork change your understanding of habitat sustainability challenges? How are you using this understanding to build your career as an placemaking leader? How does your city/community understand the challenges of habitat health and their impact? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions What habitat sustainability strategies and solutions did you observe in your fieldwork? How are you using these examples to build your career as an placemaking leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these strategies and solutions to foster healthy habitat? Becoming a CityLab leader What examples of multimodal intelligence did you oberve and practice in your habitat sustainability fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your effectiveness as a leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of multimodal intelligence? Building your placemaking toolkit What innovative skills and practices did you observe and practice in your habitat sustainability fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your placemaking toolkit? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these skills and practices to foster healthy habitat? Growing your placemaking network How did your habitat sustainability fieldwork expand the field of placemaking leadership? How are you connecting with habitat sustainability leaders to grow your placemaking network? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of its leadership network to foster habitat health? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds What healthy habitat insights, observations, and experiences will enhance your story of placemaking leadership? What healthy habitat fieldwork insights, observations, and experiences will enhance story of your CityLab community?

## M4 | HEALTHY PEOPLE

### HEALTHY PEOPLE *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Healthy People.pdf

### HEALTHY AT HOME *(Page)*
Green and Healthy Homes - Obafemi Ayanbadejo Interview Video Transcript: Interview with Femi Ayanbadejo.pdf

### WHAT IS HEALTH? *(Page)*
Use the arrows below to navigate through this interactive StoryMap about Healthy People. You can also click directly on the tags on the map.

### EXPLORING HUMAN WELLBEING-2 *(Page)*
Perspectives on health Johns Hopkins (2022) Bloomberg American Health Initiative RW Johnson Foundation (2020). Achieving health equity Williams & Cooper (2020) COVID-19 and health equity US Health.Gov. Healthy People 2030 United Nations. Capabilities and Human Development Perspectives on community resilience and cohesion St Croix Valley Foundation. (2023) Resilient Communities . World Bank City. City Resilience. ARUP (Global sustainability collective) City Resilience Index World Bank Fragility Forum. (2022). Leveraging social cohesion to promote resilience. United Nations Data Futures Platform. Social Cohesion James O'Donnell. The Scanlon Foundation (2023). The current state of social cohesion (Australia )

### M4 | YOUR ACTIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK *(SubHeader)*

### CITYLAB SYNC SESSION |  September 19, 2024, 7-9 PM EDT *(SubHeader)*

### M4 FIELDWORK *(Page)*
Exploring human wellbeing in your community High quality, accessible, affordable health and wellness care Nourishing, affordable, abundant, and accessible food High quality, enriching, affordable childcare, family support systems, and developmentally-appropriate education for a lifelong love of learning Healthy growth opportunities for people of diverse ages, traditions, incomes, identities, and lifestyles HEALTHY PEOPLE FIELDWORK ACTIVITIES Artifacts for your CityLab Portfolio STEPS INDIVIDUAL TEAM QUESTION What do you want to understand? Why is it important? Formulate a question that identifies and explains an urgent urban health challenge in your city and your fieldwork site. Share and compare your questions and paragraphs with your team. LOCATION Where will you focus your fieldwork inquiry? Explore and apply healthy people policy priorities to add a health layer to your storymap with a note explaining how exploring your fieldwork site will illuminate understanding of the urban health challenge you have identified. Discuss points of similarity and difference with your team. Explore ways you can collaborate to deepen and amplify your understanding of urban health challenges. DATA INQUIRY What can you learn about your city from public and open data sources? Explore national and local health data sources to construct a data visualization display and map note of key facts illustrating and illuminating the health challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss your data visualizations, paragraphs, and what you are learning from the data and each other. LITERATURE REVIEW What can you learn about your city from domain knowledge scholarship, journalism, media, and other sources of public discourse? Write a paragraph that summarizes, synthesizes, and applies at least two domain knowledge sources to illuminate the urban health challenge you have identified for your city and your fieldwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss your interpretations of domain knowledge sources and what you are learning from the literature and each other. SITE ANALYSIS How well does the proposed site align with your inquiry? Based on your knowledge, create a map note (with photos and other artifacts) that highlights specific points of interest relevant to the urban health challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss the salience of your map notes in relation to the health challenge you have identified. INQUIRY ANALYSIS Should you redefine or reframe your question? Apply what you have learned to refine your question in light of conditions in your CityLab fieldwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss how to refine your questions to fit your fieldwork site conditions. FIELDWORK METHODS What methods of inquiry will you choose? Apply a specific fieldwork method to create an inquiry instrument and implementation protocols that will generate robust findings in response to your urban health question. Practice interview, conversations, and observation techniques. Compare, critique, and discuss as a team how to select and utilize fieldwork inquiry methods and tools effectively. Collaborate in writing implementation protocols and practicing fieldwork techniques. FIELDWORK PLAN What are the details of your fieldwork operation? Create a fieldwork checklist including: 1) Site map of the CityLab fieldwork area with an itinerary and timeline of specific places, people, and events where you will focus your observation and data collection; 2) Permissions (as necessary) for access to controlled locations and people; and 3) Tools (ID badges, devices, worksheets, notepad, pens, camera, microphone); Collaborate with team members in developing your fieldwork plan. Discuss and define how you will activate your highest level of multimodal intelligence in conducting your fieldwork. FIELDWORK OPERATIONS How will you conduct your field work? Follow your fieldwork plan with attention to conditions that merit adaptive measures. Monitor and note field co

### M4 PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
M4 YOUR HEALTHY PEOPLE PORTFOLIO REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability How did your fieldwork change your understanding of urban health challenges? How are you using this understanding to build your career as an placemaking leader? How does your city/community understand the challenges of urban health and their impact? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions What urban health strategies and solutions did you observe in your fieldwork? How are you using these examples to build your career as an placemaking leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these strategies and solutions to foster health and wellbeing? Becoming a CityLab leader What examples of multimodal intelligence did you oberve and practice in your urban health fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your effectiveness as a leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of multimodal intelligence to foster health and wellbeing? Building your placemaking toolkit What innovative skills and practices did you observe and practice in your urban health fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your placemaking toolkit? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these skills and practices to health and wellbeing? Growing your placemaking network How did your urban health fieldwork expand the field of placemaking leadership? How are you connecting with urban health leaders to grow your placemaking network? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of its leadership network to foster health and wellbeing? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds What human wellbeing insights, observations, and experiences will enhance your story of placemaking leadership? What urban livability fieldwork insights, observations, and experiences will enhance story of your CityLab community?

### DUE THIS WEEK | Assignment 3: Digital Portfolio Showcase Invitation. September 22, 2024 *(SubHeader)*

### WEEK 4 | CITYLAB  PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE INVITATION *(Assignment)*

## M5 | RESILIENT COMMUNITIES

### RESILIENT COMMUNITIES *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Resilient Communities.pdf

### HUMAN COMMUNITIES *(Page)*
Human communities: Cohesion and resilience Humans are social creatures. When we consider the livability of communities through the lens of human wellbeing, both individuals and communities are important. Individuals thrive in communities and communities thrive on healthy individuals. Don't be confused by our use of both "resilient" and "cohesive" in reference to communities. These are slightly different terms for communities that are able to hang together and bounce back under stressful conditions. For US Homeland Security and disaster, resilience is about a community's ability to recover from crisis, whether it be a pandemic, hurricane, power outage, or armed conflict. While material and managerial infrastructure are critically important, we are also learning from experience that cohesive social bonds are integral to community resilience. The short videos below are a quick look at cohesive communities. Social cohesion. Video. Bertelsmann Foundation Social capital: The glue that binds us togethe r . Herding Together.

### WHAT ARE COHESIVE COMMUNITIES? *(Page)*
Use the arrows below to navigate through this interactive StoryMap about Cohesive Communities. You can also click directly on the tags on the map.

### RESILIENT COMMUNITIES: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES *(Page)*
Car Barn After you select play, click and drag on the video to view the Car Barn and surrounding neighborhood. Please note that the 360 player by Vimeo will only play when using one of the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Opera, or Edge. Video Transcript: Car Barn.pdf Tracie Guy-Decker Video Transcript: Interview with Tracie Guy-Decker.pdf

### PERSPECTIVES ON RESILIENT COMMUNITIES *(Page)*
St Croix Valley Foundation. (2023) Resilient Communities . World Bank City. City Resilience. ARUP (Global sustainability collective) City Resilience Index World Bank Fragility Forum. (2022). Leveraging social cohesion to promote resilience. United Nations Data Futures Platform. Social Cohesion James O'Donnell. The Scanlon Foundation (2023). The current state of social cohesion (Australia )

### M5 | YOUR ACTIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK *(SubHeader)*

### M5 FIELDWORK *(Page)*
Exploring resilience in your community Inclusive social infrastructure of accessible, welcoming places and spaces for informal communication, interaction, and neighborliness Inclusive collaborative practices for sharing ideas, values, goals, and concerns Robust, timely disaster and crisis response infrastructure to protect and restore functionality to people and systems Branding/bonding events, places, and spaces that celebrate community identity, values, traditions, milestones, and connections to place ACTIVITIES STEPS INDIVIDUAL TEAM QUESTION What do you want to understand? Why is it important? Formulate a question that identifies and explains urgent community resilience challenges and assets in your city. Share and compare your questions and paragraphs with your team. LOCATION Where will you focus your fieldwork inquiry? Locate and explore your city’s history of structural vulnerability and disruptive, traumatic incidents to contextualize the dynamics of the community resilience challenge you have identified. Discuss points of similarity and difference with your team. Explore ways you can collaborate to deepen and amplify your understanding of community resilience. DATA INQUIRY What can you learn about your city from public and open data sources? Explore public and local data sources to construct a data visualization display and map note of key facts illustrating and illuminating the community resilience challenges you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss your data visualizations, paragraphs, and what you are learning from the data and each other. LITERATURE REVIEW What can you learn about your city from domain knowledge scholarship, journalism, media, and other sources of public discourse? Write a paragraph that summarizes, synthesizes, and applies at least two domain knowledge sources to illuminate the community resilience you have identified for your city and CityLab feildwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss your interpretations of domain knowledge sources and what you are learning from the literature and each other. SITE ANALYSIS How well does the proposed site align with your inquiry? Based on your knowledge, create a map note (with photos and other artifacts) highlighting points of interest relevant to the community resilience challenges you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss the salience of your map notes in relation to the community resilience challenge you have identified. INQUIRY ANALYSIS Should you redefine or reframe your question? Apply what you have learned to refine your question in light of conditions in your fieldwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss how to refine your questions to fit your fieldwork site conditions. FIELDWORK METHODS What methods of inquiry will you choose? Apply a specific fieldwork method to create an inquiry instrument and implementation protocols that will generate robust findings in response to your health and community resilience questions. Practice interview, conversations, and observation techniques. Compare, critique, and discuss as a team how to select and utlize fieldwork inquiry methods and tools effectively. Collaborate in writing implementation protocols and practicing fieldwork techniques. FIELDWORK PLAN What are the details of your fieldwork operation? Create a fieldwork checklist including: 1) Site map of the CityLab fieldwork area with an itinerary and timeline of specific places, people, and events to focus your observation and data collection; 2) Permissions (as necessary) for access to controlled locations and people; and 3) Tools (ID badges, devices, worksheets, notepad, pens, camera, microphone). Collaborate with team members in developing your fieldwork plan. Discuss and define how you will activate your highest level of multimodal intelligence in conducting your fieldwork. FIELDWORK OPERATIONS How will you conduct your field work? Follow your fieldwork plan with attention to conditions that merit adaptive measures. Monitor and note 

### M5 PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
YOUR RESILIENT COMMUNITIES PORTFOLIO REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability How did your fieldwork change your understanding of community resilience challenges? How are you using this understanding to build your career as an placemaking leader? How does your city/community understand the challenges of community resilience and their impact? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions What community resilience strategies and solutions did you observe in your fieldwork? How are you using these examples to build your career as an placemaking leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these strategies and solutions to foster community resilience? Becoming a CityLab leader What examples of multimodal intelligence did you oberve and practice in your community resilience fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your effectiveness as a leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of multimodal intelligence to foster community resilience? Building your placemaking toolkit What innovative skills and practices did you observe and practice in your community resilience fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your placemaking toolkit? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these skills and practices to foster community resilience? Growing your placemaking network How did your community resilience fieldwork expand your networkof placemaking leadership? How are you connecting with community resilience leaders to grow your placemaking network? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of its leadership network to foster community resilience? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds What community resilience insights, observations, and experiences will enhance your story of placemaking leadership? What community resilience fieldwork insights, observations, and experiences will enhance story of your CityLab community?

## M6 | EMPOWERED CITIZENS

### WHAT DO WE MEAN BY "EMPOWERED CITIZENS"? *(Page)*
Use the arrows below to navigate through this interactive StoryMap about Engaged Citizens. You can also click directly on the tags on the map.

### EMPOWERED CITIZENS *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Empowered Citizens.pdf

### EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES: DWIGHT WARREN'S STORY *(Page)*
Interview with Dwight Warren Video Transcript: Interview with Dwight Warren.pdf

### EXPLORING EMPOWERED CITIZENSHIP *(Page)*
Empowering and Engaging Citizens Center for Urban and Racial Equity. https://urbanandracialequity.org/ Open Government Partnership. https://www.opengovpartnership.org/about/ Johns Hopkins Bloomberg Center for Government Excellence. https://govex.jhu.edu/ New Cities. The Big Rethink After COVID-19 . https://newcities.org/the-big-rethink/ Democracy Watch. https://democracywatch.ca/ United Nations Foundation. World in Crisis: Empowering Citizens. https://youtu.be/Ld1wN8a2clE Data for Democracy: https://citizendata.com/ The Democracy Collaborative. https://democracycollaborative.org/ Local Initiatives: Portsmouth VA Empowerment Forums. https://www.portsmouthva.gov/2388/Empowerment-Forums Tacoma WA Equity Index. https://www.cityoftacoma.org/cms/One.aspx?portalId=169&pageId=175030 New York City Open Data Week. https://2023.open-data.nyc/

### M6 FIELDWORK *(Page)*

### M6 PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
Your Empowered Citizenship Portfolio REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability How did your fieldwork change your understanding of empowered citizenship challenges? How are you using this understanding to build your career as an placemaking leader? How does your city/community understand the challenges of empowered citizenship challenge and their impact? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions What empowered citizenship strategies and solutions did you observe in your fieldwork? How are you using these examples to build your career as an placemaking leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these strategies and solutions to foster empowered citizenship? Becoming a CityLab leader What examples of multimodal intelligence did you oberve and practice in your empowered citizenship fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your effectiveness as a leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of multimodal intelligence to foster empowered citizenship? Building your placemaking toolkit What innovative skills and practices did you observe and practice in your empowered citizenship fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen empowered citizenship in your placemaking toolkit? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these skills and practices to foster empowered citizenship? Growing your placemaking network How did your empowered citizenship fieldwork expand the field of placemaking leadership? How are you connecting with empowered citizenship leaders to grow your placemaking network? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of its leadership network to foster empowered citizenship? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds What empowered citizenship insights, observations, and experiences will enhance your story of placemaking leadership? What empowered citizenship fieldwork insights, observations, and experiences will enhance story of your CityLab community?

## M7 | SHARED PROSPERITY

### SHARED PROSPERITY *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Inclusive Prosperity.pdf

### WHAT IS SHARED PROSPERITY?  *(Page)*
Use the arrows below to navigate through this interactive StoryMap about Shared Prosperity. You can also click directly on the tags on the map.

### SHARED PROSPERITY: CARL FISHER'S STORY *(Page)*
Interview with Carl Fisher Video Transcript: Interview with Carl Fisher.pdf

### EXPLORING SHARED PROSPERITY *(Page)*
Building Inclusive Prosperity Shared Prosperity Initiative. https://www.sharedprosperitypartnership.org/ Center for Economic Democracy. https://www.economicdemocracy.us/ Urban Institute: Financial Health and Wealth Dashboard. https://apps.urban.org/features/financial-health-wealth-dashboard/ Brookings Institution. Interactive Metro Monitor. https://www.brookings.edu/interactives/metro-monitor-2021/?keyword=metro%20monitor%202023 Brookings Institution. Mapping Sustainable Prosperity. https://www.brookings.edu/research/activity-centers/ Prosperity Now. https://scorecard.prosperitynow.org/ World Bank Open Data. Global Development Data. https://data.worldbank.org/ United Nations World Cities Report 2022. https://unhabitat.org/sites/default/files/2022/06/wcr_2022.pdf Community Commons: Advancing Equitable Economies Policy Library. https://www.communitycommons.org/entities/cba0eacc-13d9-4cb7-a378-1b3d9468a8a2 Local Initiatives Baltimore. Community Wealth Builders. https://www.communitywealthbuilders.org/ Cleveland. Atlas of the Future. Cleveland's Shared Prosperity Model. https://atlasofthefuture.org/project/the-cleveland-model/ Saint Paul. Center for Economic Inclusion. https://www.centerforeconomicinclusion.org/ Minneapolis. Federal Reserve Bank. Center for Indian Country Development. https://www.minneapolisfed.org/indiancountry/

### M7 | YOUR ACTIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK *(SubHeader)*

### CITYLAB SYNC SESSION | October 10, 2024, 7-9 PM EDT *(SubHeader)*

### M7 FIELDWORK *(Page)*
Exploring shared prosperity in your community Ethical business, finance, and public sector governance Education for economic competence and productivity Proactive intersectional initiatives to eliminate structural inequities in economic opportunity Entrepreneurial, conscientious, and adaptive business community Diverse mix of business, professional, and nonprofit enterprises Robust public, private, and social investment vehicles Innovative capitalization of undervalued assets and public goods Inclusively innovative business, managerial, and financial models and practices ACTIVITIES Artifacts for your CityLab Portfolio STEPS INDIVIDUAL TEAM QUESTION What do you want to understand? Why is it important? How would you identify and explain an urgent empowered citizenship challenge in your city? How are citizens in the community responding to this challenge? Share and compare your questions and paragraphs with your team. LOCATION Where will you focus your fieldwork inquiry? Locate and explore your city’s history of structural inequality and disempowering incidents to contextualize the dynamics of the empowered citizenship challenge you have identified. Discuss points of similarity and difference with your team. Explore ways you can collaborate to deepen and amplify your understanding of empowered citizenship challenges. DATA INQUIRY What can you learn about your city from public and open data sources? Explore public and local data sources to construct a data visualization display and map note of key facts illustrating and illuminating the empowered citizenship challenge you have identified and how communities are responding to this challenge. Compare, critique, and discuss your data visualizations, paragraphs, and what you are learning from the data and each other. LITERATURE REVIEW What can you learn about your city from domain knowledge scholarship, journalism, media, and other sources of public discourse? Write a paragraph that summarizes, synthesizes, and applies at least two domain knowledge sources to illuminate your community’s inclusive prosperity challenge and the assets and/or initiatives required to respond effectively. Compare, critique, and discuss your interpretations of domain knowledge sources and what you are learning from the literature and each other. SITE ANALYSIS How well does the proposed site align with your inquiry? Based on your knowledge, create a map note to highlight specific points of interest relevant to the inclusive prosperity challenge you have identified. Compare, critique, and discuss the salience of your map notes in relation to the inclusive prosperity challenge you have identified. INQUIRY ANALYSIS Should you redefine or reframe your question? Apply what you have learned to refine your question in light of conditions in your CityLab fieldwork site. Compare, critique, and discuss how to refine your questions to fit your fieldwork site conditions. FIELDWORK METHODS What methods of inquiry will you choose? Apply a specific fieldwork method to create an inquiry instrument and implementation protocols that will generate robust findings in response to your inclusive prosperity challenge question. Practice interview, conversations, and observation techniques. Compare, critique, and discuss as a team how to select and utlize fieldwork inquiry methods and tools effectively. Collaborate in writing implementation protocols and practicing fieldwork techniques. FIELDWORK PLAN What are the details of your fieldwork operation? Create your fieldwork checklist: 1) Site map, itinerary, and timeline of specific places, people, and events; 2) Permissions (as necessary) for access; and 3) Tools Collaborate with team members in developing your fieldwork plan. Discuss and define how you will activate your highest level of multimodal intelligence in conducting your fieldwork. FIELDWORK OPERATIONS How will you conduct your field work? Follow your fieldwork plan with adaptive measures as need. Note field conditions, perf

### M7 PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
YOUR SHARED PROSPERITY PORTFOLIO REFLECTION/PROJECTION LEARNING PROFESSIONAL PROFILE COMMUNITY PROFILE CityLab challenge: Urban livability How did your fieldwork change your understanding of inclusive prosperity challenges? How are you using this understanding to build your career as an placemaking leader? How does your city/community understand the challenges of inclusive prosperity and their impact? CiyLab strategies: Emerging solutions What inclusive prosperity strategies and solutions did you observe in your fieldwork? How are you using these examples to build your career as an placemaking leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these strategies and solutions to foster empowered citizenship? Becoming a CityLab leader What examples of multimodal intelligence did you oberve and practice in your inclusive prosperity fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your effectiveness as a leader? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of multimodal intelligence to foster inclusive prosperity? Building your placemaking toolkit What innovative skills and practices did you observe and practice in your inclusive prosperity fieldwork? How are you using your observations and practice to stretch and strengthen your placemaking toolkit? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of these skills and practices to foster inclusive prosperity? Growing your placemaking network How did your inclsuive prosperity fieldwork expand the field of placemaking leadership? How are you connecting with inclusive prosperity leaders to grow your placemaking network? How effectively does your city/community identify, build, and scale the business value of its leadership network to foster inclusive prosperity? Creating your CityLab Pecha Kucha Profiles Your stories in 20 slides and 6 minutes 40 seconds What shared prosperity insights, observations, and experiences will enhance your story of placemaking leadership? What urban livability fieldwork insights, observations, and experiences will enhance story of your CityLab community?

### COMING DUE  | Assignments 6, 7, and 8 *(SubHeader)*

### 10/14/2024 | CITYLAB PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE *(Assignment)*

### 10/15/2024 | CITYLAB DIGITAL PORTFOLIO *(Assignment)*

### 10/16/2024| SUMMARY REFLECTION ESSAY *(Assignment)*

## M8 | PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE

### WEEK 8 PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE AND NETWORKING *(Page)*
WRAP-UP WEEK! This week you are wrapping up your CityLab Catalyst experience. Enjoy the week and focus on three priorities. 1- Finish your Portfolio Don't miss the Zoom Portfolio Showcase on Wednesday evening. Put the finishing touches on your Portfolio and think about how you will use it when you finish the course. 2- Write your Reflective Summary Essay Style, format, length -- it's up to you. Read the assignment carefully. The essay is not graded, but if you don't complete it and turn it in, your grade will be penalized. This is an opportunity to take stock of what you achieved in the past eight weeks -- and what you learned about yourself and your community. 3- Create a CityLab bibliography Review the first six weeks of content. Review sources from your independent research. Gather all your favorites in a folder for future reference. 4- Plan your next steps If you are signed up for the second CityLab course, you will be working on a project. If you aren't doing the CityLab project, what will you do with your CityLab experience? How will you continue on your CityLab learning pathways to make a difference in your community? How will you stay engaged with the people and places you've gotten to know? 5- Stay in touch! You are part of a growing network of CityLab alumni all over the country and throughout the world. Stay active. Join CityLabs USA on LinkedIn. Stay in touch with your classmates and navigators. Become a navigator!

### DUE THIS WEEK *(SubHeader)*

### 10/14/2024 | CITYLAB PORTFOLIO SHOWCASE *(Assignment)*

### 10/15/2024 | CITYLAB DIGITAL PORTFOLIO *(Assignment)*

### 10/16/2024| SUMMARY REFLECTION ESSAY *(Assignment)*
