# City Lab Practicum
**Course Code:** 76068 | **Term:** FA24
**Institution:** JHU Carey Business School

## PROJECT PORTFOLIO

### PROJECT PORTFOLIO PREVIEW *(Page)*
All of your work for the CityLab Practicum is focused on a social impact project. You and your team will be functioning as consultants, pooling your knowledge and expertise to support a Baltimore City social impact initiative. You will be working with experienced leaders developing innovative approaches to resolving entrenched livability challenges that affect community health, housing, jobs, and opportunities. Whatever your current location or career plans, t here will important elements of the project that will be relevant for you and can be completed remotely . During the first week of the term, we will organize project teams so you can get familiar with the project, the sponsor, the community, and background issues. You will meet with your project leader, organize yourselves as a team, define your project deliverables, develop a work plan, and then get to work. SIGN UP FOR A PROJECT EARLY! FINAL PROJECT SIGN-UP DATE: OCTOBER 25, 2024: Go to the PEOPLE page in Canvas and move your name to one of the projects. BE A LEADER! Pull your team together and begin work on your Prospectus. FALL 2024 PROJECT PORTFOLIO PREVIEW 1 | MCB REAL ESTATE: Waterfront development cost benefit analysis PROJECT LEAD/CONTACT: Adam Genn, MCB Real Estate, Harborplace Redevelopment WEBSITE: https://mcbrealestate.com/property/harborplace/ PROJECT: Work with Project Lead to define and evaluate the public/community benefit of the MCB Harborplace redevelopment plan based on similar high-profile waterfront developments in cities with geographies of concentrated racialized poverty. DELIVERABLE: A projected cost benefit analysis for the MCB Harborplace redevelopment. LAUNCH NOTES: Contact Adam Genn to schedule a project briefing before October 28. Read every section of the MCB Harborplace website to familiarize yourself with the project. This is a controversial project that hinges on a November 5 Baltimore City ballot initiative, so you should also check out news updates: CBS News; Baltimore Banner. PLACEMAKING CHALLENGE: How can diverse Baltimore stakeholders collaborate effectively to demonstrate rustbelt city capacity to leverage the asset value of post-industrial waterfront properties in reducing citywide neighborhood disparities and positioning the city for more equitable, robust, wealth-creating opportunities in the innovation economy? 2 | BALTIMORE BUILDS: Modular construction industry co-op startup PROJECT LEADS/CONTACTS: Brendan McCluskey and David Traskey WEBSITE: TBD (See project folder for more information) PROJECT: Work with Project Leads to complete a national survey and analysis of cooperatively owned and operated businesses, The project should identify, categorize, and analyze key features of cooperatively owned US companies in real estate, materials, infrastructure, and other essential industries to determine optimal corporate structure (e.g., legal, industry scope, membership terms and roles, equity stack, managerial decision-making, asset management, etc.) to launch and scale a Baltimore-based cooperatively owned company ready to supply Baltimore and the nation with healthy, affordable, durable, and energy-efficient modular homes. DELIVERABLE: A proposal (with supporting documentation, data, and analysis) defining recommended features and details for launching a Baltimore based cooperatively owned real estate and infrastructure startup involving multiple individual and corporate owners. The proposal should anticipate expanded real estate and infrastructure development capacities as the company scales to meet anticipated demand. LAUNCH NOTES: Contact Brendan McCluskey and David Traskey to schedule a project briefing before October 28. Read the Baltimore Builds project materials to familiarize yourself with the project. This project is an opportunity transform an ambitious business idea into reality. A group of Baltimore small-scale real estate businesses are ready to form a locally owned for-profit co-operative company to simultaneously add

### 24 F CITYLAB PROJECT PORTFOLIO.10.17.24.docx *(File)*

### 1 |  MCB | Waterfront Development Cost Benefit Analysis *(Page)*
LINK TO PROJECT TEAM NOTE: Please wait for confirmation of Adam Genn as project contact. PROJECT LEAD/CONTACT: Adam Genn , MCB Real Estate, Harborplace Redevelopment WEBSITE: https://mcbrealestate.com/property/harborplace/ PROJECT: Work with Project Lead to define and evaluate the public/community benefit of the MCB Harborplace redevelopment plan based on similar high-profile waterfront developments in cities with geographies of concentrated racialized poverty. DELIVERABLE: A projected cost benefit analysis for the MCB Harborplace redevelopment. LAUNCH NOTES: Contact Adam Genn to schedule a project briefing before October 28. Read every section of the MCB Harborplace website to familiarize yourself with the project. This is a controversial project that hinges on a November 5 Baltimore City ballot initiative, so you should also check out news updates: CBS News ; Baltimore Banner . PLACEMAKING CHALLENGE: How can diverse Baltimore stakeholders collaborate effectively to demonstrate rustbelt city capacity to leverage the asset value of post-industrial waterfront properties in reducing citywide neighborhood disparities and positioning the city for more equitable, robust, wealth-creating opportunities in the innovation economy?

### 2 |  BALTIMORE BUILDS FORWARD |  Modular Construction Industry Co-op Startup *(Page)*
LINK TO TEAM PAGE PROJECT LEADS/CONTACTS: Brendan McCluskey and David Traskey WEBSITE: TBD PROJECT: Work with Project Leads to complete a national survey and analysis of cooperatively owned and operated businesses, The project should identify, categorize, and analyze key features of cooperatively owned US companies in real estate, materials, infrastructure, and other essential industries to determine optimal corporate structure (e.g., legal, industry scope, membership terms and roles, equity stack, managerial decision-making, asset management, etc.) to launch and scale a Baltimore-based cooperatively owned company ready to supply Baltimore and the nation with healthy, affordable, durable, and energy-efficient modular homes. DELIVERABLE: A proposal (with supporting documentation, data, and analysis) defining recommended features and details for launching a Baltimore based cooperatively owned real estate and infrastructure startup involving multiple individual and corporate owners. The proposal should anticipate expanded real estate and infrastructure development capacities as the company scales to meet anticipated demand. LAUNCH NOTES: Contact Brendan McCluskey and David Traskey to schedule a project briefing before October 28. Read the Baltimore Builds project materials to familiarize yourself with the project. This project is an opportunity transform an ambitious business idea into reality. A group of Baltimore small-scale real estate businesses are ready to form a locally owned for-profit co-operative company to simultaneously address climate change, affordable housing, and workforce development through innovative application of proven business strategies focused on revitalization in Black Butterfly neighborhoods. PLACEMAKING CHALLENGE: How can diverse Baltimore stakeholders collaborate effectively to create an innovative placemaking industry that rebuilds blighted neighborhoods and reinvigorates the city’s industrial ecosystem for the innovation economy by simultaneously tackling multiple root causes of urban blight (e.g., vacant & abandoned properties, toxic building materials, undersupply of safe, affordable homes, environmental degradation, under/unemployment, undercapitalized small business)? CONTEXT/RESOURCES Concept white paper: 2024 BMORE B UILD FORWARD White Paper Urban Passive 07 30 24 v2.2 2024-10-09 23_36_05.docx Land O Lakes -- A very profitable farmer-owned cooperative business. Can we do for housing what Land O Lakes is doing for food?

### 3 |  INVEST YORK ROAD |  Community Wealth Building Marketing and Communication Strategy *(Page)*
LINK TO TEAM PAGE PROJECT LEAD/CONTACT: Stephanie Geller , Community Wealth Builders WEBSITE: https://www.investyorkroad.org/ PROJECT: Work with Project Lead and Invest York Road leaders to develop a marketing and promotion strategy that informs and educates community stakeholders and external investors about the benefits of investing in the future of the York Road community. properties suitable for investment and redevelopment as part of a real estate cooperative venture. DELIVERABLE: A first draft marketing and promotion plan. LAUNCH NOTES: Contact Stephanie Geller to schedule for a project briefing before October 28. Read every section of the Invest York Road website to familiarize yourself with the organization and its work. This is a continuing CityLab project, so be sure to examine project files. PLACEMAKING CHALLENGE: How can Invest York Road engage a critical mass of current and potential neighborhood and external stakeholders to invest in the wealth-creating capacities of York Road businesses to build a more equitable local business ecosystem and economy of shared prosperity? PROJECT CONTEXT: Previous CityLab Project Materials COMMUNITY TOUR York Road Corridor.pdf 2023 Invest York Road Project Report.docx

### 4 |  CHERRY HILL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION|  Management Systems Development *(Page)*
LINK TO PROJECT TEAM PAGE PROJECT LEAD/CONTACT: Lachele Kellam , Executive Director, CHDC WEBSITE: https://chdcmd.org/ PROJECT: Work with Project Lead to develop internal management structures needed to grow and sustain the organization: Building systems for financial management, project management, human resources management. DELIVERABLE: A business and managerial systems development and operational plan. LAUNCH NOTES: Contact Lachele Kellam to schedule a project briefing before October 28. Read every section of the CHDC website to familiarize yourself with the organization and its work. This is a new CityLab project in a high-priority Baltimore Black Butterfly neighborhood. When Lachele took over the Executive Director role a year ago, she inherited an organization that was beloved in the community but lacked the business and managerial systems to operate effectively. PLACEMAKING CHALLENGE: How can the Cherry Hill Development Corporation rebuild its business and managerial capabilities to lead more effectively in the fostering more robust, healthy, and equitable home housing and home ownership opportunities for the Cherry Hill community?

## BUSINESS FOR IMPACT AND EQUITY

### Economic Development to Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Baltimore Development Corporation *(ExternalUrl)*

### Digital Equity in Maryland, The Abell Foundation *(ExternalUrl)*

### 2023 Plan for Economic Equity and Progress. The Century Foundation and  *(ExternalUrl)*

### Equitable innovation Economies, Urban Innovation Alliance *(ExternalUrl)*

### Business Planning for Social Impact.pdf *(File)*

### Brookings Bass Center Playbook_Community-Rooted-Economic-Inclusion_Playbook.3.11.21.pdf *(File)*

### Brookings Bass Center. Economic Inclusion Playbook-Practitioner-Slides-3.11.21.pdf *(File)*

### BrookingsMetroRecovery.Neighborhood-Investment (2020).pdf *(File)*

### Healthy-Corridors-Strategy-and-Resource-Guide.pdf *(File)*

## CITYLAB ACTIVE LEARNING

### CITYLAB LEARNING PATHWAYS *(Page)*
During the CityLab Practicum you will continue the CityLab Catalyst practices of inquiry and discovery that enable you to see wicked problems as opportunities for innovation. The five CityLab learning pathways extend far beyond intellectual and analytical knowledge and skills to develop more complex multi-modal intelligence, dispositions, and capabilities that characterize innovative, adaptive leaders. LEARNING PATH 1: Becoming your best self – qualities and habits of multi-modal intelligence in an urban context of complexity, uncertainty, risk, and opportunity. Ethical values: Act with integrity. Discipline: Cultivate habits of purposeful intelligence, empathy, and self-control. Inclusion and equity: Value and connect with people across boundaries. Adaptive innovation: Discover innovative solutions to complex challenges. Resilience: Welcome challenges as an opportunity to grow. Collaboration: Share power and resources to envision and strive for the common good. LEARNING PATH 2: Understanding urban challenges as a convergence of systemic global and local forces shaping city habitat, people, communities, power, and economies. Humans have become an urban species, with the majority of people now living in urban areas. Cities are a human invention built for commerce, but not for human wellbeing. The livability of cities is an adaptive challenge that will determine the future of humanity and the planet. Most cities have not galvanized the resources and managerial capacities to resolve their livability challenges. LEARNING PATH 3: Exploring urban innovation strategies to foster more livable cities: Sustainable habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizens, and inclusive prosperity. Cities can be designed for human livability and livelihood. Cities are rich in untapped human talent. Humans have a history of creating successful, innovative solutions to adaptive challenges. The next generation can seize the adaptive challenge of urbanization to build livable cities for a livable future. LEARNING PATH 4: Building your urban innovation toolkit – skills and practices that enable you to transform urban livability challenges into business innovation opportunities for prosocial impact and equity. Data resources: Curated data and information sources Technology: Data visualization software, digital media Interpretive methods: Mash-up ethnography, appreciative inquiry, soundprints, asset mapping, performance art, narrative Integrative: Critical reflection, journaling, mindfulness Interactive: Design thinking, teamwork, focus groups, collaborative processes, consensus, empathic listening, focused conversation LEARNING PATH 5: Growing your urban innovation network of boundary-spanning collaborative partnerships to accelerate innovative action for urban livability impact and equity. Personal: Friends and family Academic: Classmates, faculty, & alumni Professional: Formal and informal groups of shared occupational and business sector identities, interests, and pursuits Affiliation: Formal and informal voluntary associations and groups of shared interests, identity, purpose, location, or concerns Intentional: Groups and associations of shared commitment to specific goals or purposes

## CITYLAB TOOLKIT

### THE CITYLAB PORTFOLIO *(Page)*
The CityLab Portfolio organizes and documents your entire CityLab experience in a digital platform that you can continue updating and refining for years to come. Unlike many academic projects that shove days, weeks, or even months of toil and struggle into a dusty shelf or lost cyberspace corner, your CityLab Portfolio transforms your work into ompelling stories that you can share with anyone – a prospective employer, client, business partner, or investor – from your own website or social media channel. People are natural storytellers – and you have your own stories to tell! Creating a narrative – a story – is the way people make sense of their experience. You already have a narrative – partly conscious and partly unconscious – about cities and what makes them livable. Part of your work in CityLab is to examine your own narrative about cities in light of the literature, the data, and the various perspectives that people create from vary different experiences of cities. Your fieldwork is a way of exploring livability from people whose experience is different from yours. You begin building your CityLab Portfolio by exploring and interpreting the Livable Cities theme content in light of your own experience. You bring that to your fieldwork where you encounter new places, people, and perspectives that spark new impressions and idea. You will examine how underlying values of integrity, equity, justice, care, and freedom that form the foundation of all human communities are expressed and observed in your lab community. New experiences generate new stories. You will create two stories for your CityLab Portfolio based on your CityLab Catalyst experience: Your Professional Story: Who are you – and who do you aspire to be – as an innovation leader in your community? How are you preparing yourself to take on the challenges of being an innovation leader?What worries and inspires about the future of your community? How do you envision your business and profession as a platform for building a more livable world for yourself, your family, and your community? What livability challenges and opportunities do you want to tackle in the near or extended future? The learning pathways of the CityLab Catalyst provide you with the basic architecture of your story Your Community Story: How did you choose your lab community? What are your first impressions? What places, people, events, and activities define the community? What do the places, people, events, and activities say about its livability? How do community members understand and express their views about healthy habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizenship, and shared prosperity? What do people love about their community? What do people worry about? As you begin to experience the community more fully, how are your first impressions changing (or remaining the same)? Your story will include artifacts that you create to make your story come alive – writing samples, field notes, data visualization schemas, photos, videos, drawings, soundprints, inquiry tools, conceptual models, artwork. By the end of the CityLab Catalyst, your portfolio will be a thoughtfully blended narrative enhanced with artifacts that tell your personal story as an urban innovation leader as well as the story of your CityLab neighborhood. Homesteading on the Web: Create your digital portfolio -- For those of you who haven't yet created your own "home on the web" -- check out the links below for advice on how to get started. How I set up my personal website. Chris Uehlinger. 2014. Top 10 Best Website Builders . 2023. How to make a website ~ Tutorial for beginners. WebYoda. 2023.

### LEARNING YOUR CITY *(Page)*
How do you learn your city? You already know how to make it work for you, but most of us settle into a fairly stable daily/weekly travel pattern of work, shopping, childcare, and other sites of daily or weekly tasks. The work-childcare-home triangle, a common travel pattern for families with working parents and young children, is documented in a recent pre-COVID Maryland study examining the economic cost of inadequate childcare (Talbert et al. 2018. Counting Our Losses: The Hidden Cost to Marylanders of an Inadequate Childcare System . Maryland Family Network). In tracking US household mobility patterns, the US Department of Transportation documents how COVID-19 pandemic has permanently altered daily travel patterns, especially in congested urban areas, but for most of us, normal habits of daily living constrain the operational geography of average household travel patterns to a small fraction of a city. So, however long you have lived in your city, it is likely that you still have a lot to learn about the various neighborhoods and communities in your city. Cities are complex, dynamic organisms that cannot be understood from one location or perspective. You are unlikely to be an effective urban innovation leader if you don't expand your operational geography to places and people that are outside your current frame of reference. Your fieldwork is intended to expand your operational geography. Not just as a disengaged tourist, but as an engaged "familiar" learning to understand, appreciate, and even love parts of your city that may now seem unknowable to you. As you explore ways to learn your city, the prospect of fieldwork in an unfamiliar neighborhood will seem less daunting -- so think of it as a hometown adventure! Cities are dynamic and constantly changing -- the catalysts of change are everywhere in kaleidoscopic mix of people and events unique to each city. As you learn your city, resist the "fast brain" urge to define and fix it with labels that fail to reflect its vitality. Instead of approaching new parts of your city with hypotheses based on what you already know, bring open-ended questions that engage all your senses and multimodal intelligence in discovering the places, people, and happenings that you don't know. Learning is change -- be a catalyst! Let learning your city change you. Pay attention to how you resist and embrace changing your ideas and attitudes about your city. Pay attention to how your city is changing and how you want to be involved in shaping the trajectory of change. You will find new joys and passion, but pay attention to your fears and anxieties as an invitation to imagine constructive responses to adaptive challenges. Thompson. 2021. The Adaptive Challenge of COVID-19 . Mind and Society, 20. Springer Press.

### FIELDWORK: DISCOVERY *(Page)*
What is Fieldwork? Fieldwork is the art and practice of discovery to understand natural environments, people, communities, and cultures through direct observation and engagement. Fieldwork involves being in a place, usually for an extended period of time, to observe and experience the material and social contexts that influence people (or animals and natural phenomena such as climate), relationships, beliefs, attitudes, and behavior. Fieldwork practices and research methods vary according to disciplines. Natural scientists may combine qualitative and quantitative methods to collect detailed data about animal and plant species in a particular habitat. Some social scientists may combine qualitative and quantitative methods to collect data to discover patterns of social influence on human behavior while others may learn more towards qualitative methods to understand people more deeply in a particular context. Examples might be a geographic or ethnic neighborhood, work or family system, or conditions such as stress, life transitions, or events. CityLab fieldwork intentionally utilizes more qualitative methods, primarily ethnography, for a deeper, broader understanding of what it means to thrive in complex urban environments. Your fieldwork practice will be several intensive weeks of urban ethnography. The purpose of your urban ethnography fieldwork is two-fold: 1) Deeper understanding and appreciation of yourself as an urban person and aspiring urban innovation leader; and 2) Deeper understanding and appreciation of people in your city or community whose material and social conditions are very different from your own. Video Transcript

### URBAN ETHNOGRAPHY *(Page)*
What is urban ethnography? Forrest Stuart, Urban Ethnography , Oxford Bibliographies, February 24, 2021 If ethnography is the study of people as they negotiate their everyday lives, then urban ethnography is the study of how urban residents and other inhabitants make sense of their daily social worlds, navigate surrounding communities, and manage the broader forces that structure the urban experience. Methodologically, it privileges deep, immersive fieldwork alongside research participants. Substantively, it focuses on interactions and institutions that define urban space, whether those are public streets, neighborhood organizations, or community events. Urban ethnographies have traditionally thought of “communities” geographically, examining how the central topics of poverty, crime, culture, and peer group formation play out in delimited spaces such as neighborhoods, wards, and districts. Theoretically, it has historically tended to draw on social-constructionist and interactionist orientations, conceiving of the urban life as something “built up,” so to speak, from repeated and ritualized encounters. As one of the longest-standing and iconic subfields of sociology, anthropology, and other humanistic social sciences, urban ethnography remains one of the most influential modes of understanding social life in cities. True to form as one of the most conflictual and controversial subfields, an increasing number of scholars are pushing back on convention, insisting on the need to embrace theoretical orientations that are more critical and structurally focused, and to more adequately consider the global forces and relational dynamics that exist beyond, but fatefully impinge upon, bounded field sites. As urban ethnography’s readership has grown, so too have methodological critiques regarding replicability, as well as concerns about potential exploitation and voyeurism among its practitioners and readership. Urban ethnography resources University of Copenhagen, Global Urban Studies Summer School. Online Mini-lectures. New Urban Life Across the Globe: Activism and Change in a World of Cities. Summer 2018. These mini-lectures were designed for an international group of professionals from diverse fields learning to apply urban ethnography methods in their work. LECTURE 1: Anders Blok: "URBAN ETHNOGRAPHY" Segment 1A: The tradition of urban ethnography LECTURE 2: Amanda Hammar: "MOVING METHODOLOGIES" Segment 2: Moving Methods in Practice LECTURE 3: Anders Blok: "SITUATIONAL MAPPING AND ANALYSIS" Segment 1B: Methodology Sophie Yetton and Suzanne Hall, Ordinary Streets , LSE Cities, London School of Economics and Political Science, 2015 This short film is an example of urban ethnography exploring an immigrant community in South London. Urban Ethnography Lab, Methods , Humboldt University Berlin, Institute for Contemporary Design, and University of Toronto This transatlantic collaboration promotes interdisciplinary ethnographic research methods. The site includes summaries and notes from recent workshops.

### APPRECIATIVE INQUIRY *(Page)*
Why (and what is) appreciative inquiry? Laboratory methods very often focus on problems, causes, and fixes. CityLab fieldwork will certainly include exploration of problems, but rather than focus only on the problems, CityLab encourages a positive approach to understanding situational challenges. Consider, for example, how CityLab frames livable city themes and strategies: Sustainable habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizens, and shared prosperity . We are not focusing on toxic habitat, fragile people, fractured communities, disenfranchised citizens, and poverty, even though we certainly work to understand and find solutions to these problems. Why the difference? CityLab focuses the strengths we bring to building the kind of world and future we want to live in rather than on the problems that make it hard to live. The positive framing of inquiry and discovery encourages a positive, confident approach to changes that may be difficult but possible. A positive approach to change is especially important when getting to know communities with more challenges than you are accustomed to in your neighborhood. All people have strengths, wherever they are and whatever challenges they face. In every neighborhood there are things that people like and and appreciate about it. A conversation by talking about what people like about living in their neighborhood and their hopes for the neighborhood is usually is more productive than a conversation that begins what's wrong. Appreciative Inquiry is designed for community engagement and organizational change, but it is a useful method to use in teamwork and in urban ethnography fieldwork to look for positive human experiences, human strengths, and positive institutions. Appreciative inquiry resources The AI Commons : Virtual hub of Appreciative Inquiry resources, people, events, and gatherings. David Cooperider - Appreciative Inquiry : Video featuring an Appreciative Inquiry founder talking about business as an agent of world benefit How to use Appreciative Inquiry to Engage People: Video on using Appreciative Inquiry to tackle complex problems. Appreciative Inquiry + Visuals : Video mini-session on using Appreciation Inquiry to facilitate discovery meetings. How to do an Appreciative Inquiry Interview . Video about interviewing business leaders.

### DATA AND INFORMATION RESOURCES *(Page)*
Finding data about cities and communities Reliable data is an essential tool for understanding cities and urban communities. As you plan and conduct your fieldwork, data provides you with background and contextual information that helps you make sense of what you are observing and experiencing in your fieldwork. Sometimes you will find contradictory evidence that drives you deeper into the data and as well as into observations and conversations to construct a full picture of what is actually happening. With the proliferation of data and information on the internet, it is crucial that you use reliable, reputable sources of data. A good place to start is the Johns Hopkins Sheridan Libraries online data services, but may wish to add your own sources as you begin exploring the vast field of data platforms related to cities and communities. US Census Bureau: Interactive Maps US Census Bureau: Cities Johns Hopkins Sheridan Libraries Databases . Log in with your JHED credentials. Johns Hopkins Sheridan Libraries Statistics . Log in with your JHED credentials. Simply Analytics Data analytics platform and tools hosted by Johns Hopkins. Create and account with your JHED credentials. Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance (BNIA). Quality of life indicators for Baltimore neighborhoods. Brookings Metro Monitor 2021 . Interactive tool tracking inclusive economic growth performance of 192 US metro areas. (2022 not available) National Association of Counties County Explorer. Interactive tool to access snapshot data for every county in the US. Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Economic Development . Online federal services hub for economic development Local data and tools City and county governments are good sources free public access to local community data, information, and geomapping services. Some universities and colleges also provide similar services. Many jurisdictions aggregate data by council districts or neighborhoods to create community profiles with interactive maps. A good place to start is the local government website for your city or county. You will also find that local business associations and chambers of commerce, and community groups are also likely to create community profiles designed to attract and welcome new businesses and residents. Local nonprofit and and public interest groups often produce data and reports focused on issues related to their mission. The local resources for Baltimore MD are examples of the kind of data and tools you can find in communities almost anywhere in the United States. Baltimore MD Click on the links below for examples of local data and information sources. You will find similar sources in your community. Baltimore City Government Baltimore City Department of Planning: Interactive Map Gallery Perkins Somerset Oldtown Transformation Plan . Housing Authority of Baltimore City. 2018. Live Baltimore.Neighborhoods Baltimore Development Corporation Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance Baltimore Metro Council CLLCTIVLY: Building Black Futures Together UPSURGE Baltimore South Baltimore Gateway Partnership Perkins Somerset Oldtown Transformation Plan. East Baltimore Revitalization Report . Southern Baptist Church . 2017. Jonestown Vision Plan . Historic Jonestown Community Association. 2015.

### ASSET MAPPING *(Page)*
What is asset mapping? Asset mapping is a collaborative exercise or tool for identifying the positive attributes, strengths, and resources of a community. Whatever the state of your lab community, understanding asset mapping can help you begin your fieldwork with a positive attitude. Asset mapping is especially important in communities that are defined by their problems. All communities have assets that may be overlooked and undervalued, especially by outsiders. Whatever your initial reactions and responses to your lab community, it is the people who live, work, and spend time there who are most aware of its assets. Focusing on assets encourages people to think positively about themselves and their future, fostering confidence about their ability to find creative solutions to problems. As you explore the places in your lab community, pay attention to your initial response. It is important to acknowledge and interrogate your own responses and what you infer from your observations of others. How do you feel as you walk around and explore the physical space of your lab community? What specific sights, sounds, smells, or sensations prompt your responses? As you observe people and animals, what do you infer from their behavior -- do they seem relaxed, anxious, friendly, or cautious in they way the move in places that are probably very familiar to them? What specific sights, sounds, smells, or sensations prompt your inferences? How do you assess the accuracy of your responses and inferences? Asset mapping tools and methods A Guide to Asset Mapping . Guide to Asset Mapping.pdf . Bank of IDEAS . Asset mapping for digital inclusion . New York State Library System. 2023. Google My Maps: Everything you need to know! GoDelta Labs. 2023. Habitat: Assets of place Take note of the physical assets of the community's natural and built environment. Tree canopy, parks, boulevards, and open areas Plantings, yards, and green spaces around buildings Materials, design, and arrangement of homes and other buildings Rivers, beaches, ponds, fountains, creeks, and other water features Recreational facilities Commercial buildings Public service and government buildings and facilities Shopping areas Streetscapes Traffic patterns Utilities, transit, and material infrastructure Fences, walls, and physical barriers Public art

## CITYLAB CATALYST RESOURCES

### LIVABLE CITIES: THE ADAPTIVE CHALLENGE *(Page)*
Video Transcript: Liveable Cities.pdf

### LIVABLE CITIES LAB *(Page)*
Livable cities don’t just happen. They are the work of business, government, nonprofit, and community leaders who think beyond themselves and pool their ideas, resources, and social capital to solve problems and create opportunities available to everyone in their cities. Future-oriented leaders know that collaboration and cooperation within help make a city stronger in an increasingly competitive global economy where cities around the world compete for resources, opportunities, and talent. CITYLAB: Adaptive “catalyst” leaders Tapping into today’s urban innovation networks Urbanization is transforming the world in ways that are making cities unsustainable. Cities are also filled with energetic, generous leaders who are catalysts of conscientious change for a more livable future. CityLab connects students with catalyst leaders, including CityLab alumni, whose experience, professional networks, and expertise are revitalizing neighborhoods and communities throughout the city, the country, and the world. Working together on projects in struggling city communities, the current generation of leaders create a living legacy by mentoring and inspiring the next generation of leaders to continue the work of building livable cities for livable future. Networks of neighborhoods: Strong neighborhoods make strong cities Neighborhoods — a convergence of place and people – are the organic cell structure of cities. Cities are a mix of rich and poor, highly valued and undervalued, struggling and strong neighborhoods, but every city is stronger when all its neighborhoods are strong. CityLab focuses on neighborhoods struggling with livability challenges – living laboratories of experimentation and adaptive change where neighborhood leaders are working to build innovative business, economic, and social ecosystems that foster sustainable habitat, healthy people, resilient communities, empowered citizens, and inclusive prosperity. The Convergence: Urbanization, Industrialization, Globalization, and Capitalism Urbanization is largely a convergence of industrial capitalism that has flooded the world with an almost endless supply of products that make our lives more comfortable -- certainly in wealthier nations like the United States, Europe, and China where electricity, indoor climate control and plumbing, washers and dryers, pharmaceuticals, automobiles, airplanes, restaurants, cinemas, and the internet greatly reduce the workload of daily living while expanding options for leisure and entertainment. Concentrating the production and distribution of these modern conveniences in cities makes them more affordable, so people have gravitated to cities to enjoy the social and material infrastructure of modern life. Over the years, the unintended consequences of modern life have taken a toll on humanity and the planet. Unintended consequences of modern life As catalysts of commerce, culture, and community, cities now account for: 2% of global land mass 54% of humanity (66% in 2050) 60% of global energy consumption 70% of greenhouse gas emissions 70% of global waste 70% of global GDP The future of humanity and the planet hinges on our ability to manage challenges that disrupt urban habitats, people, communities, civic order, and economic security throughout the world. Fortunately, the resources for solving global challenges are also concentrated in cities; we can choose to leverage these resources to build more livable communities. Reinventing cities for the future: Your CityLab Like everyone in the world, you are living in the Urban Century laboratory. Whether your are living in densely populated Manhattan (72,918 residents per square mile) or the sparsely populated Turtle Mountain Nation in North Dakota (9.7 residents per square mile), urbanization has an indelible impact on the way you live. Think about how you eat and where you get your food. In the past one hundred years, the food system has changed dramatically from locally produced and consumed foods to

### URBAN LIVABILITY THEMES *(Page)*
A livable city is a dynamic, organic network of urban villages: Eco-communities of nature, places, people, institutions, cultures, and commerce that enable the present generation to flourish without compromising capabilities and opportunities for future generations. Building livable cities requires knowledge, strategies, and practices that address challenges of habitat, people, communities, citizenship, and prosperity. Click here for an accessible version of this click and reveal graphic.

### CITIES AND THE MAKING OF AMERICA *(Page)*
BEFORE WE WERE HERE: INDIGENOUS NATIONS INTERACTIVE MAP In the US, we typically think about the colonial origins of our states and cities as the foundation of America, but you might want to explore the geography of indigenous homelands that flourished long before most of our colonial founders arrived. URBAN FOUNDATIONS AND FUTURES.pdf Every city has a foundation story. This story of Baltimore is just one example that you might want to consider in thinking about your own city's foundation story. Like the foundation of a house, the foundation of our cities is the foundation of our future. The more we understand about that foundation, the more secure our future will be. LIVABLE CITIES: WEALTH FOR HUMAN FLOURISHING.pdf Many Americans consider their citizenship in the richest, most powerful nation on earth as a permanent birthright of US capitalism, but how secure is that birthright? How sustainable is American capitalism? Should we explore other versions of capitalism for our future?

### GLOBAL MEGATRENDS *(Page)*
The Millennium Project: 15 Global Challenges How do these global challenges affect your life? your future? your community?

### CATALYST LEADERSHIP: VALUES AND ETHICS *(Page)*
LEADERSHIP AND VALUES If you are participating in the CityLab but have not completed the Business Leadership and Human Values course, exploring leadership and values is a good way to fill that gap. THE CAREY BUSINESS CREDO I will strive to anchor value creation in human values . I will demonstrate in every way that I am worthy of the trust people place in me to manage their money, property, business, and reputation in creating sustainable, inclusive wealth. REFLECTION QUESTIONS Level 1: Personal Integrity Self-awareness: Do I know and understand my values? Responsibility: Am I worthy of trust? Acting on Values: How do I articulate and live my values in conditions of uncertainty, risk, and danger? Self-critique: How do I evaluate my values? Level 2: Conscientious Leadership Value proposition: What is my value proposition as a leader? How do I bring out the best in others in creating shared value? Responsibility: How do I understand my responsibility to others who rely on me to deliver on a value proposition? Judgment: How do I earn the confidence of others in my ability to navigate situations of uncertainty, risk, and danger? Visible Values: How do I contribute to a work culture of visible, actionable values? Moral Solidarity: How do I share accountability with colleagues, partners, and stakeholders for the methods and consequences of our decisions and actions? Level 3: Conscientious Value Cretion Social Value Creation: How do I build on values to create wealth? How does the wealth I create benefit humanity? Business Sustainability: How do I build on values to extend the wealth creation horizon into the future? Inclusive Economy: How do I build on values to include more people and communities in value creation? How do I build on values to remove barriers to economic participation? YOUR MORAL COMPASS If you are participating in the CityLab but have not completed the Business Leadership and Human Values course, exploring the Moral Compass is a good way to fill that gap. YOUR MORAL COMPASS: ANCHOR OF YOUR “BEST SELF” Thompson (2010). The Global Moral Compass for Business Leaders Thompson (2022). The Leadership Labyrinth: Values for a Livable Future WHAT IS MORALITY? Your personal moral compass is embedded in a wisdom tradition of values, principles, rituals, and practices that may be largely invisible to you. In a postmodern world of diverse cultures and perspectives, we are often steeped in several competing wisdom traditions that can be difficult or even stressful to navigate; one might find faithful religious observance personally meaningful, for example, but hard to justify with tools of empirical reason. Unlike the past, when cultures were more contained, no single wisdom tradition defines morality in contemporary cultures. It is easy, then, to be confused about morality and what it means to be a “moral” person. Western thought and culture are embedded with assumptions of human moral weakness and the corrective role of reason, redemption, therapy, and criminal justice to “fix” the problem. While sophisticated powers of reason are a defining aspect of human personhood, it is not a singularly defining aspect of human morality. This tacit moral narrative that shapes moral development and conscience is based on three assumptions: · Humans are morally flawed · Moral agency is about rules and discipline · Moral competence is about reason While these assumptions may hold true for you, there is more to the story: · Humans are morally capable : Your brain is naturally wired with complex moral capabilities that are context-sensitive and adaptive. · Moral agency is relational : You develop your full moral capabilities through lifelong practice within a community of wise, caring people who foster the integrity and wellbeing of each person. · Moral competence is holistic : Moral competence is a complex blend of intrapersonal, neurochemical, initiative, emotional, and rational capabilities interconnected with interpersonal, social capabili

### POVERTY AND INEQUALITY: CHANGING THE NARRATIVE *(Page)*
Poverty and inequality We all have "unconscious narratives" that we create to make sense of the world. It is easy for our unconscious narratives to get stuck on " automatic replay" in a way that fails to reflect the changes in what is actually happening in the world around us. Poverty and inequality are good examples of unconscious narratives that are shaped by a constant flow of media, conversations, and events that barely register in our conscious mind. What is your "unconscious narrative" of poverty and inequality? When you think of what it means to be "poor" or "unequal" -- what kind of people, places, and contexts pop up as images your head? How do you relate to these images? How familiar are these images? Can you name the people, places, and events that form these images? How well do you actually know them? Talking about poverty and inequality: Kathryn Edin Kathryn Edin is one of foremost experts on poverty in America, authoring eight books and more than sixty journal articles. The critically acclaimed book, $2 a Day: The Art of Living on Virtually Nothing in America , co-authored with Luke Shaefer, was included in The New York Times 100 Notable Books of 2015, cited as “essential reporting about the rise in destitute families.” Catalyst Leader: Joseph Poupon Joseph Poupon is an example of how a small business can be catalyst of social innovation by creating ladders to opportunity and equity. Joseph Poupon launched his French pastry business in 1986. Hiring people off the streets in one of Baltimore's most distressed neighborhoods, Joseph built Pâtisserie Poupon into one of the most highly successful and acclaimed specialty food destinations in the Baltimore-Washington Metro Area. Pâtisserie Poupon pastry chefs have gone on to build their own successful careers in top restaurants and pastry shops all over the world. Video Transcript: Interview with Joseph Poupon.pdf

### CATALYST LEADERSHIP: EQUITY AND INCLUSION *(Page)*

### THE BALTIMORE: A POST-INDUSTRIAL AMERICAN CITYLAB *(Page)*
Baltimore exemplifies many of the livability challenges facing post-industrial cities throughout the country. Wherever you live and work, you can learn from Baltimore's struggles to work through its livability challenges. As one of the first Industrial Age cities in the United States, Baltimore is gearing up to reinvent itself as 21st century city on the leading edge of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Grappling with "hard histories" of structural inequalities is one of the necessary catalysts of systemic and structural adaptation that enable cities, communities, and organizations forge a better future that values every member of society and leaves no one behind. EXPLORING WHOLE HISTORIES Racism and discrimination at Johns Hopkins: Hopkins Hard Histories Project BLAC: K LIVES MATTER Summer 2020 Public Opinion: Civis Analytics: BLM and Policing Pulse Survey Analysis A HISTORY OF RACIAL INEQUITY The Color of Law: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America C-Span Book TV Conversation : Richard Rothstein and Ta-Nehisi Coates INTERSECTIONAL EQUITY Thompson, L.J. (2020) “ Intersectional equity and business legitimacy ” in Handbook of Business Legitimacy, Rendtorff, ed. Springer International Publishing . BLACK RESILIENCE Audio: Linda Morris. Cherry Hill: Raising Successful Black Children in Jim Crow Baltimore . Palisades NY: History Publishing Company. 2018. THE BALTIMORE BLACK BUTTERFLY Video: Dr Lawrence Brown presents The Black Butterfly. 2021. Theodos, B., Hangen, E., Meixell, B., Foster, L. (2019) The Baltimore Black Butterfly: Racial Segregation and Investment Patterns in Baltimore . Washington DC: The Urban Institute. Mock, G. (2019). Are reparations Baltimore’s fix for redlining, investment deprivation? GENTRIFICATION Sutton, S. (2015). What we don’t understand about gentrification. TEDx New York. https://youtu.be/XqogaDX48nI Quarles, S. (2017). Gentrification and the next generation. TEDx Crenshaw. https://youtu.be/D3aJioRlYp8 BALTIMORE CATALYST LEADERS FOR EQUITY 1RACE: https://1racellc.com/ Black Butterfly Exchange: https://blkbtrfly.exchange/ Black Women Build: https://blackwomenbuild.org/ BMORENOMA: https://www.bmorenoma.org/ Chris Wilson: https://chriswilson.biz/ CLLCTIVLY: https://cllctivly.org/ Community Wealth Builders: https://www.communitywealthbuilders.org/ Fight Blight Baltimore: https://www.fightblightbmore.com/ Juxtopia: http://juxtopia.com/ Parity Homes: https://www.parityhomes.com/ South Baltimore Community Land Trust: https://www.sbclt.org/

### OLDTOWN: THE MOST DANGEROUS MALL IN AMERICA *(Page)*
What do you think is the point of this story? What do you think is the narrator's point of view? If you could have a conversation with the narrator, what questions would you ask? What else would you want to say? What is the most dangerous place in your community? How would you tell its story?

### THE BLACK BUTTERFLY  *(Page)*
THE BLACK BUTTERFLY RACIAL APARTHEID IN AMERICA The Black Butterfly Project The world gasped in April 2015 as Baltimore erupted and Black Lives Matter activists, incensed by Freddie Gray's brutal death in police custody, shut down highways and marched on city streets. In The Black Butterfly—a reference to the fact that Baltimore's majority-Black population spreads out on both sides of the coveted strip of real estate running down the center of the city like a butterfly's wings—Lawrence T. Brown reveals that ongoing historical trauma caused by a combination of policies, practices, systems, and budgets is at the root of uprisings and crises in hyper segregated cities around the country. Putting Baltimore under a microscope, Brown looks closely at the causes of segregation, many of which exist in current legislation and regulatory policy despite the common belief that overtly racist policies are a thing of the past. Drawing on social science research, policy analysis, and archival materials, Brown reveals the long history of racial segregation's impact on health, from bode pollution to police brutality. Beginning with an analysis of the current political moment, Brown delves into how Baltimore's history influenced actions in sister cities like St. Louis and Cleveland, as well as its adoption of increasingly oppressive techniques from cities like Chicago. But there is reason to hope. Throughout the book, Brown offers a clear five-step plan for activists, nonprofits, and public officials to achieve racial equity. Not content to simply describe and decry urban problems, Brown offers up a wide range of innovative solutions to help heal and restore redlined Black neighborhoods, including municipal reparations. Persuasively arguing that, since urban apartheid was intentionally erected, it can be intentionally dismantled, The Black Butterfly demonstrates that America cannot reflect that Black lives matter until we see how Black neighborhoods matter. The Complete Transformation of Baltimore City Dr. Lawrence Brown gives a talk in connection with the May 13, 2022, film screening of "Voices of a Black Butterfly," which preceded this talk. The film was produced by the Baltimore National Heritage Area and presented by the Peale. What is it to survive and thrive in a city that doesn’t always acknowledge your presence and history? "Voices of a Black Butterfly" explores the cultural aspects of living in Baltimore, where history is both enriched and complicated by its length and its diversity. The film addresses what a heritage area is and also singles out the unique characteristics of Baltimore’s urban heritage area. Baltimore’s heritage isn’t just represented by its historic buildings or museums. This film offers a voice to the real experiences of the “black butterfly,” the city’s often disinvested Black neighborhoods. These voices remind us that each culture is worth preserving in all its facets, and that we are both defined and connected as people by the wings of Baltimore’s “black butterfly.” For information about the "Voices of a Black Butterfly" film, please visit t he Peale's website.

## Turnitin Plagiarism Checker for Students

### Turnitin Plagiarism Checker *(Assignment)*
